CHAPTER 8: siggy arrives with a pi
File: 8 - siggy arrives with a pi.docx
================================================================================

And now you get to meet  my friend Siggy.  My  new  friend Siggy.   At this point in my life, Siggy  and I  had  only been friends for a couple weeks.   He’d only been to my house once before, but on that previous visit, I had invited him first.  I wasn’t entirely sure  how I felt about  this visit tonight, where he just showed up .  There  are rules to friendships , you know? Or maybe I shouldn’t say rules. They’re more like guidelines. R eally good friends can just come over anytime, but people  you’ve only known for a few weeks  should maybe text  first? Oh my gosh I haven’t texted Raven yet .  The  thought rushed into my brain as Siggy barged into my room with his cardboard box . Raven’s note , the one she’d given me at the library,  with her phone number ,  was still in my pocket. I’d been so excited about my plan to study my way into STEM  super powers  that I’d forgotten all about that note.  I  considered   making  Siggy  wait in the hall so I could pull out the note and text her immediately. But Siggy barged  into the room with such force there was no  stopping  him.  “This arrived on my porch this afternoon,” he said, plopping the box on my desk.  He lifted the flaps and started pulling out rectangular plastic  cases . Each  case   had a colorful picture on the front and a title on its spine.  “Are  those  old movies?” I  said .  “You’d think that, yes,” said Siggy. “These are cases for old VHS videotapes.” He kept pulling them out one at a time and setting them in a stack on my desk, right next to my stack of books.  The first one he pulled out was  titled   Dark Star . The next was  Kingdom of the Spiders .  “Siggy, you know I don’t have a VHS player, right?” “Oh, don’t worry. I’m not here to make you watch old movies,” he said, as he continued pulling tapes from the box. The next one he pulled was called  Yor: Hunter  From  the Future .  Then  Metalstorm : The Destruction of Jared-Syn . Siggy was the only person I knew who liked to watch old movies on VHS  tape . He also liked to listen to music on  vinyl, and  play old video games on old computers and gaming systems.  His bedroom was practically a museum of old tech.  “ If we’re not watching them, why are you pulling out all these old movies ?” I  said .  “I thought you said  you were here for something urgent .” “Oh, it’s urgent,” said Siggy. “And it turns out these aren’t movies at all.”  He pulled one more plastic case from his box. This one was called  Spacehunter : Adventures in the Forbidden Zone . He set it on top of the stack. (sketch, show stack of movies next to stack of books) “ So   here’s what happened,” he said , as he sat down in my desk chair. “ This box arrived  a little after two in the afternoon.  You know…package at the door, delivery-person rings the doorbell, dog goes nuts, you think it’s just more of whatever Mom’s ordered from Amazon, but then you come outside and see a box addressed to you.” As he told this part of the story, Siggy put the flaps of the box back in place so I could see the handwritten address on it. (sketch – show box, addressed in marker direct to Siggy, show return address from  Verne Mulpitt ).  “Who the heck is Verne Mulpitt?” I  said .  Rather than answer me, Siggy stared me down, like I had just insulted his mother. “What?” I  said . “Why are you looking at me like that?” “Okay, you’re clean,” he said. “Just checking. That was one of the most important reasons for this visit. You’ve passed the test , I think. ” “Siggy, what the heck are you even talking about?” “I wanted to make sure you weren’t pranking me somehow,” Siggy said. “Not that I’d expect you to do a prank like this. Would be very dark for you.” I backed up to  the edge of my  bed and plopped down. I took a deep breath. I didn’t know Siggy very well yet. I knew that he was a nice guy, he meant well, he was super smart and quirky and different, but I also knew that sometimes he kind of annoyed me.  A part of me wanted to tell him that I’d been doing something that was important to me before he just showed up with all…this.  “Siggy, will you please tell me what this is about?” “You asked who Verne  Mulpitt  is,” said Siggy. “And in the end, I think that , more than anything, is what’s important . Who is Verne Mulpitt, or rather, who  was  he, and why did he send me this box?”  I sat on the bed , waiting for him to tell me more, but he was looking at me again, as if waiting for me to say something. I shook my head and raised up my hands. “What are we doing here, Siggy?” I  said .  “You seriously haven’t heard about Verne Mulpitt, have you?” he said.  I shook my head. “Should I have?” “Gavin, the whole town’s talking about it. Where have you been? What were you doing today?” I wanted to laugh as I thought about how I could answer that question.  Well, Siggy, today I found a robot kit at a yard sale which led to a trip to the library and some life-changing realizations about who I am and what I want to do  with my life  thank you very much , but what I said was, “I’ve been busy.” “And you swear, on the eternal soul of  Pogo , that you didn’t send me this box?” Siggy said. Now I was getting mad.  Pogo  was my pet guinea pig. He’d died the previous spring. Siggy knew this, and he knew I was still kind of torn up about it.  “Why you  gotta  bring  Pogo  into this?” I  said . “ What the hell, Siggy?” “Just   swear for me--”  “I  didn’t send you this  weird box! I don’t know who Verne  Mulpitt  is! I don’t know why you’re here or what this has to do  with me, but I’m ready for you to get to the point!” “Okay, okay,” Siggy said. “Sorry for bringing up  Pogo , I just…you really haven’t heard about this guy?” “What is there to hear, Siggy?” “Verne  Mulpitt  was found dead today in Rainier Park,” Siggy said. “Somebody murdered him.” “What?” Siggy nodded. “Like I said, everybody’s talking about. Nobody knows who did it. Doesn’t make any sense. But now…” Siggy took a deep breath and exhaled sharply. “ So  he sent you this box before he died?” I  said . “Apparently so.” “But you don’t know who he is?”  “I’d never heard of him until today.”  “ So  it was a mistake,” I said. “Somehow your name and address got into some database and--” “This was not a mistake, Gavin. This box was absolutely meant to come to me, and only me, and whoever sent it knew things about me that…ah, it’s so creepy  even  thinking about it!” “What do you mean? Why would he send you a box of old movies?” “ They’re  not movies,” said Siggy. “ They’re  cases  of the movies I want to own most .” “What?” “Gavin, if you asked me to make a list of the  movies  I was most desperate to find on VHS, it would have been exactly these titles! Except maybe it would also have included  Empire of the Ants , but whatever. I mean…this is crazy, right? Not even joking, if a genie appeared before me today and said, ‘Siggy, you get three wishes,’ my first would be for a billion dollars, and my second would be for world peace and happiness yada  yada  all that, and my third would be to have these movies, these exact movies, plus  Empire of the Ants  of course, on VHS!” “And this guy sent you those exact movies,” I said. “Yes! And no! I mean…that’s where it gets even weirder! Because there are no videotapes in these cases!” “What?”  Siggy grabbed the top case from his stack, the one labeled  Spacehunter : Adventures in the Forbidden Zone .  “Check this out,” he said. He popped it open. Inside the plastic case, where a video tape should have been, there was a small circuit board of some kind. Siggy grabbed it and pulled it out.  “You ever seen one of these before?” he said. “Is that like…from a computer?” I  said . “It’s not  from  a computer,” said Siggy. “It  is  a computer. It’s a Raspberry Pi, a kind of  mini-computer  that fits onto a single circuit board.” He handed it to me.  “This little thing is a computer?” I  said .  I could hold it in the palm of my hand. It felt impossibly small to be something so important.   “Well, you still need peripherals,” said Siggy. “But don’t worry. He sent those too.” Siggy opened the next box, the one titled  Metalstorm : The Destruction of Jared-Syn .  There was a  mini computer  keyboard inside of it.  He put it on the desk.  And in the next box, for  Yor: Hunter  From  the Future , there was a  small screen , like a small computer monitor,  with a green circuit board attached to the back. T he box for  Kingdom of the Spiders  had a bunch of cables in it. The box for  Dark Star  had a USB drive.  “What the heck is all this?” I  said . “It’s everything you need to  boot up a Raspberry Pi and use it,” said Siggy.  “Why would he send all this to you?”  “Just wait until you see what’s on this  little computer ,” said Siggy, who was already laying everything out on my desk.  “Is it like…a clue about his murder?”  “If only,” Siggy said. “It’s way weirder than that.”  ( sketch …all the Pi parts on the desk He started unloading more items onto my desk. A small keyboard, a mouse, a tablet. I’d heard of Raspberry Pi’s before. Kids who were into tech talked about them sometimes. I kind of knew, somewhere in the back of my mind, that they were cool gizmos for smart, techy people.   And since I had recently decided that I wanted to be a smart, techy person, I was instantly fascinated.  (sketch of Raspberry Pi 4). “Gavin, if a genie appeared and offered me three wishes, I’d wish for  I’d had him since I was in second grade. He died last March, right around the time that my dad lost his job. Literally everything about my whole life had melted down all at once last spring, and I had told Siggy about this, told him in confidence, that my whole life had kind of gone to hell and maybe the worst part of all of it was that Boober had died, and I was crying when I told him, and  “Talking about what?” “You haven’t been by Rainier Park at all today?” Siggy said. “Or you haven’t turned on the news?  He reached into his coat pocket for his phone. Siggy was the only person I knew who kept his phone in a jacket pocket rather than his pants pocket. It was just how he was. However most people did something, Siggy did it the other way.  He swiped on the phone a few times and then handed it to me.  “This is from the Brimley Forge Tribune,” he said, handing me the phone. “It was posted today.”  I took the phone from him. On the screen was a news web site.  The headline read: Local Man Found Dead in Rainier Park. I scrolled down to read the first paragraph. Long-time Brimley Forge resident Verne  Mulpitt  was found face-down in the duck pond at Rainier Park early Saturday morning. He had multiple gunshot wounds in his back. Officers are treating the scene as a homicide.   Apparently, just an hour before I got there, she got this box in the mail, full of what looked like all these amazing old movies. And I’m not even kidding, Gav, if you asked me to make a list of the  movies  I was most desperate to find on VHS, it would have  been  exactly these titles! Except maybe it would also have  included   Empire of the Ants , but whatever. I mean…this is crazy, right? Not even joking, if a genie appeared before me today and said, ‘Siggy, you get three wishes,’ my first would be for a billion dollars, and my second would be for world peace and happiness yada  yada  all that, and my third would be to have these movies, these exact movies, plus  Empire of the Ants  of course , on VHS! How amazing is it that she just got this box in the mail just an hour before I came to the store?” “I…don’t know,” I said. “It’s amazing, I guess.  Wait, you  said she got it in the mail?” Siggy nodded with a smug grin on his face. “And now you’re wondering who mailed it to her, right?”  I shook my head. “Siggy, I don’t know what any of this means.” I wanted to add, I don’t know why you’re here, I wish you’d called first so I could have read a bit more before you came, and I really need to send a text to Raven.  “I don’t know either!” Siggy said, or rather, yelled, because sometimes Siggy talked so  loud  he was basically yelling. “Look at the box. Look at who it’s addressed to, and who it’s from.”  I went to the box and pulled the flap down. (show flap with Reba’s address and the origin address from Marv Mason) “ So  wait, you went to Reba’s, and she--” “Gave me an entire box of old movies that she’d just received in the mail,” said Siggy. “You’re exactly right. She said she thought of  “I  “ and  I got all these cool old movies. Or what I  thought  were cool old movies.  Check this out .” He  pushed past me and set  the  cardboard box on my desk, sliding my  carefully stacked  books  toward the edge in the process. “Careful, please,” I said. “Sorry,” he said. “But  seriously, look at this.” He pulled open the  box  flaps to reveal  a small stack of  old videotapes.  And also … electronics equipment ?  Was that some kind of circuit board on top? (sketch of box full of movies and computer equipment and a Raspberry Pi on top).  He  grabbed  the circuit board thing and pulled it out. “You ever seen one of these before?” he said. “Is that like…from a computer?” I  said . “It’s not  from  a computer,” said Siggy. “It  is  a computer. It’s a Raspberry Pi ,  a kind of  mini-computer  that fits onto a single circuit board.” He handed it to me.  “This little thing is a computer?” I  said .  I could hold it in the palm of my hand.  It felt impossibly small to be something so important.    “Well, you still need peripherals,” said Siggy. “ But don’t worry. I brought everything.” He started  unloading more items onto  my desk. A small keyboard, a mouse, a tablet . I’d heard of Raspberry Pi’s before. Kids who were into tech  talked  about them sometimes. I kind of knew, somewhere in the back of my mind, that they were cool gizmos  for smart, techy people.    And since I had recently decided that I wanted to be a smart, techy person, I was instantly fascinated.  (sketch of Raspberry Pi 4). Siggy cleared a space on my desk  and started connecting cables to the Raspberry Pi, which he just called a “Pi.” “I can’t believe this was just sitting in the box,” he said. “I only paid $3.99!  Pi’s  are cheap for full computers, but not that cheap!” “I don’t understand,” I said. “You bought a box of movies and--” “No, I bought some VHS tapes,” he said. “Or what I thought were VHS tapes. But one of them wasn’t.” He said it dismissively, like it was a nuisance I was asking. But  of course  I was still confused. I bet you are too.  Things you should know: the store he mentioned, Reba’s, is a fun shop on Yancy Avenue. Its full name is Reba’s Antiques and Oddities. The owner, Reba, is a collector of weird old things of all types. I like to go there with my dad, who buys antique tools, while I shop for  really old  books. Siggy likes to go there to shop for old movies in old formats, like VHS tape.  Siggy loves old movies, especially weird, low budget old movies. Last time I was at his house he made me watch this super funny but also old and obscure movie called Dark Star.  He started with (what cord would he connect first?)  Then he connected the monitor and the keyboard (show all steps with illustrations)  “This is a slightly older model,” Siggy said. “It’s the 4B, which is  basically a full computer that costs less than most video games and is about the size of a deck of cards. Which is insane, when you think about it. ” The last cord he connected was the power cord.  “Power goes last— always  last ,” he  said  “ because the moment you give it power, it wakes up.” He plugged in the power cable. The little green light on the board flickered to life. “Boom,” he said. “We’re in.” Text scrolled down the screen. White letters on a black background, moving faster than I could read. “What is all that?” I  said .  “That, my friend,” Siggy said, “is Linux.” He said the word with reverence, and I was right there with him. I’d never used Linux before, but I knew it was another thing for the kind of smart, techy person I wanted to be.  Honestly, I had been a little put out when Siggy just arrived and interrupted my study session, but now I realized that my study session was just  continuing, and  was getting even more cool. And at that moment, I had this thought that, while my journey to developing STEM  super powers  would require me to do a lot of stuff alone, in the quiet of my bedroom with the Dragon Notebook open, I would need to do even more of the journey with friends.  “ I’ve always wanted to learn Linux,” I said.  “It’s easy,” Siggy said. “Once you learn  it  you’ll like it better than any other operating system.” Operating system. I wanted to ask Siggy to tell me more, but I was a little embarrassed at all that I didn’t know.  Siggy could use all these tech words and phrases with ease. I wanted to do that too.  So much to learn.  The scrolling stopped, and a simple desktop appeared. “Raspberry Pi runs its own version of Linux,” Siggy explained, already navigating with the mouse. “It’s basically an operating system for people who like knowing what their computer is actually doing.” I nodded like I understood. “Now,” he said, “this is the weird part.” He reached back into the cardboard box and pulled out a VHS case  labeled  Yor: Hunter from the Future. “What is that?” I  said . “I thought I was buying a movie I stared at it. “That’s…that caveman movie, right?” “ First of all ,” Siggy said, offended, “Yor is not a caveman. He’s a prehistoric warrior in a leopard-skin outfit who fights robots and discovers he’s from a lost civilization.” “That doesn’t make it better.” “It absolutely does,” Siggy said. “Also, it’s terrible. But in an important way.” He opened the VHS case. Inside, instead of a tape, was a foam insert. And inside  that —a USB drive and a folded slip of paper. “This Raspberry Pi,” Siggy said, lowering his voice, “was inside this.” “Why?” “No idea,” he said. “But whoever did it either had a sense of humor, or they were a huge fan of deeply questionable Italian sci-fi from the eighties.” He plugged the USB drive into the Pi. “Okay,” he said. “ So  here’s the thing about Linux. Games don’t usually install themselves. You go find them.” He clicked open a file manager. Typed a command. More text appeared. I leaned closer. “This is the command line,” Siggy said. “It’s like talking directly to the computer instead of asking politely through menus.” “That seems dangerous.” “It is,” he said cheerfully. He navigated through folders with quick confidence. “And here,” he said, pointing at the screen, “is Galaxy Pizza Delivery.” The name appeared in blocky letters. My stomach did a weird little flip. “Wait,” I said. “That game?” Siggy nodded. “The one Marvin Marindale made. The one that was supposed to be lost. Apparently, someone didn’t want it lost.” He double-clicked. The screen went dark. Then— A low electronic hum. A splash of pixelated stars. And suddenly, right there on my monitor, the opening screen appeared: GALAXY PIZZA DELIVERY Press Any Key to Begin Siggy leaned back in my chair, satisfied. “Told you, ” he  said. “Computers are way cooler when you know where to look.” His real name is Sigmund.  Sigmund Bumbach.  But he goes by Siggy.  Siggy  Siggy was exceptionally nerdy. Like,  born five years ahead of his time  nerdy. He loved video games, old computers, new computers, imaginary computers, and computers that only existed because he’d once dreamed about them and then couldn’t stop talking about them for three straight days. He was also…a little hard to be around sometimes.