CHAPTER 12: next day raven
File: 12 - next day raven.docx
================================================================================

The problem with Challenge 6 was  simple, and, at the same time, impossible.  We had no  idea how long this line was.  (insert screenshot with markings). The game only allowed eight steps. And the last step had to land exactly on the target—no overshooting, no guessing. That meant we needed the precise length of the diagonal. But the game didn’t tell us. “How are we supposed to know how long that line is?” Siggy said, leaning back in his chair. “I have no idea,” I said. An hour later, we still had no idea. Siggy went home a little after nine  with the problem unsolved . He took the Raspberry Pi   with him.  I tried to go back to my library books after he left, but my brain wasn’t in the right place anymore. It felt like I’d started something important and then been forced to stop halfway through a sentence. I couldn’t stop thinking about that first scene in the game ,  the one where we chose to do nothing . The wormhole  opened . The aliens  poured through. The aliens weren’t little green men, or monsters with teeth and claws.   They weren’t little green men. They weren’t monsters with teeth or claws. They weren’t even really creatures at all. They were tiny, shining dots. Thousands of them. Millions. They moved in swarms, like schools of fish, or clouds of insects, except they flowed  through  people , infecting them as they went. That night, I dreamed about it .  In the dream,  alien  dots were  everywhere—floating  through classrooms, slipping under doors, buzzing around people’s heads like glittery gnats.  Everyone acted normal, but no one was quite themselves anymore. Their voices were slightly off. Their movements were half a second delayed. At one point, I realized the dots were arranging themselves into perfect geometric patterns in the air. Triangles. Squares. Diagonals. I tried to measure them, but every time I got close, the numbers slid away from me, like they didn’t want to be caught. My elementary school math teacher, Mrs. Gorfmandorff, appeared  out of nowhere. “ Quit trying to measure the length of that side and figure it out!”  she yelled, getting right in my face.  In  her eyes, I saw glowing, glittery dots of  alien  infection. I woke up suddenly, heart pounding. And that’s when I remembered. I still hadn’t texted Raven. I had gotten so wrapped up in Siggy’s weird game that  I’d forgotten all about it. I’d gotten so wrapped up in Siggy’s weird game that the thought had completely slipped my mind. It was way too early to text her now. Normal people were still asleep. Even thinking about texting someone at this hour felt wrong, like knocking on their front door before sunrise. I lay there for a minute, staring at the ceiling, replaying everything in my head—the glowing diagonal, the dots, the way the numbers in my dream had slid away from me. Finally, I gave up on sleeping. I got up, went to my desk,  and pulled out  the Dragon Notebook . (image of Dragon notebook) The Dragon Notebook wasn’t supposed to be mine. It started out as my sister Paige’s sketchbook for an after-school art class, but she decided to quit that class to focus more on piano.  So   Mom gave the sketchbook to me.  This  was  back  in  sixth  grade,  when I was still at  Northwood  Prep.  I promptly  stuck  the notebook in a desk drawer and forgot about it for  months. Then Dad lost his job . Everything  go   t  stressful and weird all at once. We had to move. And while I was packing up my room, I found the notebook again .  The day I found the notebook was,  like ,   one or two  day s  after Mom   sat us all down for a talk about how we needed to be more mindful of our spending and we would be eating out less and buying “reasonably priced” things more often and “ not being so wasteful  with what we’ve already bought, like when I buy you kids 6 notebooks at the start of every school year and you barely use  any of  them.” I distinctly remember  thinking ,   I should use this notebook for school next year so that will be one fewer notebook Mom has to buy . So   when the new schoolyear started, and I was a new student at Crump, I brought the notebook on the first  day, and  decided to make it my notebook for the very first class, which was Social Studies. And  then Social Studies went off the rails.  Our  first  Social Studies  teacher, Ms. Burns, quit  at the end of the first week . Then came a parade of  substitutes , and  finally , Ms. Whipitt, who mostly showed movies and told long, meandering stories about her life. That’s when I started zoning out and filling my notebook with sketches. I drew giant robots, superheroes, spaceships, and eventually, a dragon. A giant space dragon to be more precise. It was destroying a city while parachutists floated in from above.  I drew it during one of Ms.  Whipitt’s  long tangents about the “soul-altering trip” she took to the Galapagos Islands, as you can see from some of the  notes  I took on the same page. *(Sketch of space dragon with notes about Galapagos  Islands)* That’s my  signature  in the bottom corner of the  sketch, by the way . I didn’t normally sign my work like that, but  this girl who sat next to me, Ellie,  told me I should.  “You literally spent all of Social Studies drawing it so you should sign it and sell it,”  Ellie  said.  Couldn’t argue with  Ellie’s  impeccable logic, so I signed it and then I sold it. To  Siggy . For one Dorito.  Siggy then  taped that notebook page  to the inside of  his locker ,  and I very much enjoyed that Dorito.  But  now  my notebook didn’t have a dragon in it anymore,  and I was really into drawing dragons .  So  I drew another one, right on the cover, in black Sharpie.  And thus, the Dragon Notebook was born. That’s when I started to realize this notebook was way too nice for Ms.  Whipitt’s  boring, meandering talks about her vacations. The Dragon Notebook had  thick, blank papers meant for sketching . It was  far  superior to  the flimsy lined paper on a regular spiral notebook.  I decided this wouldn’t be a school notebook at all. This would be a notebook  for  my  things .  My ideas. My questions.  Stuff I wanted to learn, even if no one was going to test me on it.  Have you ever kept a notebook of your own learning, the things you do not because any teacher or parent makes you, but because you want to? I highly recommend it.  Looking back, I’m convinced now that my decision to start keeping the Dragon Notebook just for me  is when  I  started to change. Because if you start learning on your own, for no reason other than just you want to learn something to be better at it, you start to feel like you can learn anything. And before you know it, you’re walking through the Atlas Library on a Saturday afternoon with a girl from school and you make a sudden life-changing decision that you want to learn so much STEM stuff that it becomes like your super-power, and then,  you  just happen to find a bunch of library books that look exciting to you , and then  your friend Siggy comes over and teaches you how to assemble a Raspberry Pi and start using Linux.  I’m telling you, if you just start doing a thing, the world starts helping you. It’s kind of amazing. You’ve started  doing a thing  by reading this book . N ow you should take it to the next level. You need your own Dragon Notebook.   Seriously, I insist that you do this.  If you don’t already have a notebook that’s  yours , for things you want to learn, you need to get one. You can use any kind of notebook. Whatever’s available to you, even if it’s just a cheap spiral with notebook paper, even if it’s somebody else’s old and long dead notebook sitting on some shelf somewhere in your house. Once you have the notebook in-hand, you need to do two things with it: 1) Write down whatever you’re learning, working through, or want to learn . It can be things related to this book, but also things related to life. Just make sure it’s yours, and what you’re writing is what YOU want to write. 2) Come up with a theme for the sketches you’re going to mix into the notes you take.  As you’ve already seen, my theme was dragons. Yours could be cats or funny people or goblins or whatever. Just make sure the sketches find their way onto your notebook pages to make them more interesting and fun to look at. Let me give you an example. Here’s  a page I wrote during my study session right before Siggy came over.  (make into a sketch in handwriting in the notebook  with sketches ) Things I Want to Learn 1. More math, especially geometry about circles. 2. Electronics and robotics 3. Coding, video game design 4. More science and engineering (/sketch) The dragon who appeared on the previous page , by the way, is  Franz, who is most likely to appear when I’m thinking about big things, like what I want to do with my life.  Franz is one of three dragons who appear regularly in the notebook.  Another is  Hodgesmykal .   He shows up when I’m just thinking freely about something interesting.  Here’s a  page  from the Dragon Notebook where  Hodgesmykal  appears amidst some notes I wrote when I was thinking about gear ratios. (image – gear ratio notes) The third dragon I like to draw is Jurgen  Burgenlurg . He goes on pages where I am taking notes on something from a book or a video or anything I’m being taught.  Here he is amidst some notes about the  half one double the other technique that Dad showed us at dinner.  (half one double the other with a different dragon)  And  here’s Jurgen  Burgenlurg  again, on the page I put in the Dragon  Notebok  that morning  while I was waiting for enough time to pass that I could text Raven.  ( show  Pythagorean Theorem Problem – with the side marked: what is the length of this side?  Show the code on the side for all the steps leading up to the point where you need the length ) Down the hall, I heard an alarm go off. My dad. Every morning,  weekends and holidays included , he got up at six A.M., made a pot of coffee, went for a quick walk in the neighborhood, then worked on his “stuff.”  Back when he worked for Wallach Research, his stuff was weird laser math and science. Now that he taught college classes, it was grading and lecture notes. I heard the squeal of the bed  as he got up , then the creak of the hallway floorboards. Would Dad know how to solve this problem? I grabbed my notebook and ran into the hall. “Dad!” He jumped a little when he saw me . “What are you doing up?” he said. “I need you to help me with a math problem ,” I said .  “ Or, at least, I think it’s a math problem.”  “Gavin, it’s so early, and during this time of day I like to--” “It’ll be  real  fast,” I said. “Just look!” I held up the notebook. Dad  took  it , turned on the hallway light, put on his glasses, and studied the page.  “Is this … Logo Programming?” he said. “I just need to know how to figure out the length of this line,” I said. “Yes,” he said. “I can see that.” He handed the notebook back to me. “Have you ever heard of the Pythagorean Theorem?” “ The what ?” “Look it up while I do my morning stuff,” he said. “If you haven’t solved it by eight o’clock, come find me. I’ll help.” I reached for my notebook. ( what  to write here? I could change the rules so Gavin could just text her, but I also think it might be rewarding for the scene to have him up too early and  have to  sit with it for a  bit  but I don’t know what he’ll do that moves our plot forward. The next planned big plot thing is the scene at Raven’s. We still need to get some exposition about Gavin’s backstory at school and his dad in here.) The image stuck with me. I tried to go back to my  library  books, but I couldn’t. My mind wasn’t in a place where it could focus anymore.  I kept replaying that initial scene from the game in my head, the scene  where we let the aliens win.  The way the aliens poured through the wormhole, the way they weren’t like little green men or snarly monsters or even recognizable creatures at all, but rather, shiny little dots that moved in swarms and seemed to infect people. It creeped me out . That night I dreamed about (insert dream kind of related to alien nanobots taking over humanity and turning them into zombies, but also not, and weirdly funny, one that segues in a funny way to a realization that he never texted Raven). I woke up with a start and realized I had never texted Raven. 