CHAPTER 6: back home dinner with family
File: 6 - back home dinner with family.docx
================================================================================

I raced home  from Grandpa’s  with a backpack full of books,  pedaling as fast as my legs would go.  I had to hurry .  I was in danger of missing   dinner . Missing dinner was  a big no-no in my house.  Mom didn’t care  where you wandered during the day, or how many questionable adventures you undertook,  so  long as you were  seated  at the dinner table by six o’clock sharp. Lord  help  you if dinner started and you weren’t in your chair.  Mom had been in the army when she was younger. Now she was an elementary school teacher. When she made a rule, she expected you to follow it.  I skidded into the driveway, tossed my bike against the porch rail, and barreled inside right as Mom was setting a bowl of steaming spaghetti on the table.  “Gavin, I’m so glad you made it,” Mom said, in a pleasant tone of voice that was a far cry from the  fiery Mom of Doom that would have emerged had I been even thirty seconds slower.  I dropped into my seat , tossing my backpack on the floor right next to me , still breathing hard from the bike sprint.  “Where were you?” asked my little sister, Lila. “I was at Grandpa’s,” I said.  “ Awww …how come you always get to go to Grandpa’s by yourself?” It was a fair question.  Over the summer, I got to help  Grandpa  fix his milling machine ,  ( which  also  meant I got to learn how to use it ), and I spent many afternoons at his house  while my sisters were off doing something else . Now he was helping me with a robotics project.  I was about to argue that it wasn’t my fault Grandpa and I had similar interests, but I didn’t need to.  Mom  came to my rescue. “Now Lila, ” she said,   “ today you got to go to a birthday party  and   to Froggie’s.” Froggie’s was a new trampoline park in town. “Oh  oh ! Gavin! There’s a new  trampoline at Froggie’s that’s bright green and--” And that was all it took. Lila  launched into an explanation of  how high she could jump on the new trampoline, and I  got to  sit back in my chair and catch my breath. As Lila kept talking, the food started coming around.   I filled my plate with spaghetti, which I  used to like until we started having it all the time.  At the old house, Dad grilled steaks  or  chicken  and we had it with  baked  potatoes and big salads and bowls of fruit .  Now it felt like we  were always having pasta.  Or casseroles. So many things  had changed.  Our old house had more space. Room for elbows, room to breathe, room to just  be .  But in  the new house we were practically stacked on top of each other. We’d sold our big dining room table because it didn’t fit.  Grandpa   and I built the one we had now ( that was  actually a  cool project ) but it was way smaller, and  by the time all five of us were gathered round and the table was loaded up with food and silverware and plates it was just…crowded.  And because there was one fewer bedroom in  this  house,  the contents of  Dad’s  old  office had spread out everywhere, including the dining room . A folding card table in the corner was supposed to be “temporary storage” but had evolved into a permanent  installation of Dad Stuff, like books, magazines, a calculator, a mug of pencils, and a leaning tower of scientific journals  that Dad kept reaching for during dinner .  Lila was still detailing her trampoline adventures and might have continued until bedtime if  my older sister  Paige hadn’t intervened. “Take a breath, Lila,” Paige said. “Maybe let someone else talk.” “Who else needs a turn?” Lila demanded .  “Well, I for one, would like to hear more about Gavin’s day, considering I haven’t seen him until just now,” said Mom.  “My day was fine,” I said. Mom  raised an eyebrow . When Mom asked you about your day, she expected an answer better than  fine .  “Dad took me to a yard sale this morning,” I said. “I found a robot kit.”  And now it was my turn to talk at length  about my  day’s adventures, and I’d like to think my story was even more interesting than Lila’s tale of the green trampoline.  I told them about the yard sale, about going to Grandpa’s, about the circuit we built and all I’d learned about  electronics , and how Grandpa demanded that I learn more about electricity from a book rather than the Internet. “ …and  then Grandpa took me to the Atlas Library, where I found a couple interesting books,” I said, wrapping up . I  conveniently  left out  my encounter with Raven, and the  part where  she’d invited me over tomorrow.   I didn’t want to hear whatever my sisters would have to say about that.  “What books did you get?” said Lila.  I reached down to my backpack , unzipped it,  and pulled out the  first book from the stack:  The Human Calculator: Secrets of Mental Math . “This one teaches you how to do  math problems in your head ,” I said. For the first time since dinner started, Dad looked up from whatever had his attention on the card table.  “ Mental math, huh?” he said.  “Let me see that.”  I handed the book to Paige, who handed it to Dad.  Dad pulled a pair of reading glasses from his pocket.  “Didn’t you get any real books?” said Lila, “You know, with stories?” “Nonfiction books are real books too,” said Paige. “They’re boring books,” said Lila. “When you go to the library you should get something fun.”  “Okay, here’s an interesting one,” said Dad, his glasses on, my library book in one of his hands, his fork in the other. “It’s called, Half One Double the Other, and it’s about multiplying numbers in your head. ” “We’re not  gonna  do math now, are we?” said Paige. “I like math,” said Lila. Dad ignored them both. “ Gavin, give me a two-digit number.” Paige sighed and started twisting spaghetti round her fork. “Forty-five,” I said.  “Now Paige, you give me another one,” said Dad. Paige rolled her eyes. “Seriously?” “Come on, this will be fun,”  Dad said . “Just give another two-digit number.” “I don’t know ….twelve ,” said Paige.  “Alright,” said Dad. “The game is, we must now multiply forty-five by twelve in our heads. First one with the right answer wins. ”  I closed my eyes and imaged 45 times 12. I lined them up like we do in school… (sketch)  But that’s as far as I got before Dad yelled, “Five-hundred-forty!” “Wait, what?” I  said . “I used the trick from the book ! ” said Dad. “Half one, double the other. Here, somebody check me.” He grabbed a calculator from his coffee table and handed it to Lila.  “It is five-hundred-forty!” she said. “How’d you do that so fast?” “The book correctly tells you that if you’re multiplying numbers together  in your head , it’s usually easier to do if  you  cut one in half and double the other,” said Dad. “And  it’s true ! I doubled forty-five to get ninety, and I cut twelve in half to get six.” “Oh my gosh that’s way easier,” I said. (illustrations demonstrating). “There’s a catch, though,” said Dad. “This only works if one of the numbers is even. If you cut an odd number in half, that makes it harder, because now you’ve got a decimal floating about.”  “Let’s try again, I want to play this time!” said Lila. “Okay, here we go,” said Dad. “ This time I’ll be the referee. Let me have the calculator.  We’ll do twenty-four times  fifty-one . Go!” I had both numbers floating in my head now. 24 and  5 1.  5 1 was odd, so I couldn’t cut it  in  half. That’s the one I would double.  102. So  I need to cut 24 in half . 12.  “Hey, this is still too hard,” Lila moaned. I agreed with her but didn’t say anything. Instead, I wondered: could you  do it again?  Double 102 was 204. Half of 12 was 6. 204 x 6. “One-thousand two-hundred twenty-four!” I  said .  Dad held up the calculator (sketch of calculator showing correct answer). “Whoa, how’d you do that so fast?” said Paige. “I just kept doing the trick over and over until I found two numbers I could multiply together,” I said.  Paige laughed. “Okay, fine. That was impressive.  Can we be done doing math now?” Dad grinned, slipping the calculator back into the  leaning pile of  papers  on the card table.  As he placed it down, in typical Dad fashion, he picked up something else: one of his journals. Dad had subscriptions to all kinds of scientific journals. They came in about once a week, he opened them excitedly, and then he set them down in ever-growing piles all over the house, to be picked up whenever one caught his eye.  The one he picked up on this night was  Sky & Telescope .   “Huh,” he said. Mom groaned. “Curti s, must you read at the dinner table? ” “I know, I know,” Dad said. “I just—this is  super   interesting.” “I swear I was born into the nerdiest family in America,” said Paige, then she pointed at me and Dad and said, “You two are just like each other, you know that?” “Who am I like?” said Lila. “There’s no one like you,” said Paige. “You’re one-of-a-kind.” Lila smiled, pleased at that answer . Dad, still reading, said, “ In Brimley Forge, the autumn equinox will happen one minute after midnight this year.” He looked up, a big grin on his face. “Can you believe that?” The table was silent for a second, then everybody laughed.  “This is what you find super interesting?” said Paige.  “Well, yeah…one minute after midnight? Can you imagine a more perfect time for the equinox?” “ So  if it happens at midnight, does that mean werewolves are  gonna  come out or something?” said Paige. Lila tilted her head up and howled at the  ceiling ,  which made all of us crack up  even more.   Dad smiled but shook his head. “No werewolves, I’m afraid.  Just a fun bi t  of timing for those of us who are interested in astronomy .” “What’s an equinox?”  I asked, then, nervous that I sounded dumb, added, “I mean, I’ve heard of it before, but I don’t really know what it is.” “You know how, in summer, the days get longer and the nights get shorter, and in the winter it’s the reverse?” said Paige. “I like it when it gets dark early ,” said  Lila .   “ Feels like Christmas is coming.” “The equinox is when day and night are exactly the same length,” said Paige. “It happens twice a year.” “That’s correct,” said Dad, “and the autumn equinox is September twenty-third this year, which is next Thursday.” “But you said it happens at midnight,” I said. “How can the day and night be the same  at --” “Your sister is referring to the whole day, which is the convention now,” said Dad. “We refer to the entire day as the Autumnal Equinox, and  it’s  special because day and night are the same length on that day, but the actual equinox is  really just  a moment in time. It’s when the sun is aligned directly above the Earth’s equator.  It’s  only  for an instant and then it’s over because the Earth  keeps moving .” “ So  the equinox is like right when the sun is exactly over the equator,” I said. “That’s right,” said Dad. “And this year  that will happen one  minute after two A.M. on the East Coast, and  during  early morning in Europe, and  during the  afternoon in Asia. But here in Brimley Forge, it will be one minute after midnight.”  “ I know I’m  gonna  regret this,” Paige said, “but I ’ll  ask it anyway. Why do we care?” “Why do we care about the autumnal equinox?” said Dad in a shocked tone of voice. “Why do we care that it’s happening right after midnight ? ” said Paige. “Oh, well, maybe we shouldn’t care much, it’s just…super neat and fun, I think.”  “Your  father’s idea  of super  neat and  fun is different than most  other  people’s idea of super  neat and  fun,” said  Mom . “On the equinox, the sun rises due East and sets due West,” said Dad. “Those are the only days of the year that’s true. And that’s just what’s neat during the daytime. At night…here look at this.” Dad set down his  Sky and Telescope  journal on the table and flattened the page with his hand.  Dad turned the journal so we could see the page. There was a diagram of the Earth tilted in space, with a thin line drawn straight through its middle. “On the equinox,” Dad said, tapping the line, “the Earth isn’t tilted toward the sun or away from it. It’s perfectly balanced. That’s why day and night are the same length.” “Balanced,” I  repeated, enjoying the sound of the word . “Exactly,” Dad said. “For a moment—just one moment—the sun is lined up perfectly with the Earth’s equator. No tilt. No favoring one hemisphere over the other.” He smiled, clearly delighted. “From an engineering perspective, that kind of alignment is really special.” Dad tapped the page again. “The equinox is also one of the easiest nights of the year to get your bearings in the sky,” he said. “The stars rise and set in clean, predictable arcs. If you’re out at midnight with a telescope, everything makes more sense. East is  really east . West is  really west .   Having the equinox land one minute after midnight is going to be  amazing  this year. ” “You know what else is  amazing ?” said Mom. “Paige’s news. She’s been so patient waiting for all of you to talk through your math and your equinoxes, but…well, why don’t you tell them?” We all turned to Paige, who shrunk a little in her chair. Paige  was the most confident and assertive person I knew, but she  didn’t like to brag , and it was clear that Mom was asking her to brag. “I got an invite to  the YAR,” Paige said, quietly. YAR was a well-known acronym in our house. It stood for Young Artist’s Review. It was a contest for the best high school musicians in the state. Paige, a piano player, had been trying to get in for years.  It always made me think of a classic video game called  Yars’ Revenge  about an intergalactic space bug that eats bricks.  “That’s amazing!” said Dad. “Yay!” said Lila. “Good job!” I  said .  I  really was  happy for her,  as in genuinely excited for my older sister,  which  surprised me a little.  Paige was someone who had lots of success in life, and I wasn’t always happy for her. Sometimes I was jealous.  I think Paige  also  noticed how weird it was that I said  Good  job , because she turned to me with a  big  smile and said, “Thank you, Gavin.”  “You’ve worked hard for this,” I  added ,  barely recognizing the voice coming out of my mouth.  Who was this nice, gracious version of Gavin Holloway?  Where had he been?  I mean…I knew he was in there. When I was a little kid,  being nice  was kind of my schtick. Everyone always  said  so.  Gavin is such a nice boy .  You sure are a nice guy, Gavin .  And then middle school came and my family’s finances imploded and we had to “downsize” our house and change the foods we ate for dinner and cancel our summer vacation and move to a different neighborhood and we all had to go to new schools, and amidst all of that,  Nice Gavin  disappeared and his Bizarro World twin,  Mean Gavin , took his place.   I was mean to my parents, mean to my siblings, mad at the world, and terrible to my friends.  Right before we moved , I nuked  most of my childhood  friendships because I  just couldn’t stop being a jerk. And if Normal Gavin was moderately jealous of Paige, Mean Gavin was insanely so . Paige had something that was  her  thing,  something she was undeniably good at.  Mom would talk about Paige  to other people  and say, “ Music  is   her talent ,” and I would overhear that  and  get super miffed that Paige had a talen t  and I  didn’t , and I would want to stomp my feet and run out of the room and break things. But tonight, at dinner, Mean Gavin was nowhere to be found.  Tonight, it seemed dumb to be resentful of Paige’s talent.  I just needed to develop a talent of my own.  “ So  when’s the contest?” Dad said.  “It’s  in March,” said Paige. “I have so much practicing to do.” Yes !  Practicing .  It was all coming together. My realization in the library,  the pile of books I brought home , and now my happiness for Paige.  She’s going to practice, and I’m going to practice too.  “Where’s the contest being held?” Dad asked. “Civic Arts Pavilion,” said Paige.  “The one by the  science  museum!” said Lila.  Everyone in town loved the  science  museum, especially little kids like Lila . The Brimley Forge Museum of Science and Industry was, in my dad’s words, “a hidden gem in our city.”  But even a mention of our beloved science museum wasn’t enough to  stop my  mind  from its fixation on what I  now  had to do. If Paige was going to practice  every day , then I was going to practice too.  I had to start tonight. Sooner than tonight. I needed to start  NOW .  I waited for a lull in the conversation, then I said quietly, to Dad, “Could I get that library book back?” “Library? Oh, yes,” Dad said, then passed  The Human Calculator  back to me.  I returned it to my backpack . “Really good job, Paige,” I said, “this is so exciting.” “Thank you, Gavin,” she said.  “You’re being so sweet, tonight.” “It’s a good night,” I said, lifting my backpack from the floor.  “Now, if I can be excused , I  have four new library books I want to go read.”  I had  decided,  that very day, at the library, that I was going to practice something as manically as Paige practice the piano. I was going to read, study, work, and get totally awesome at math, science, engineering, and robotics. I was going to make that into my  super power . Into my talent.  It made me excited.  (ChatGPT: we need to wrap up this chapter now with Paige giving a contest location that’s significant…and Gavin gearing up to get to work after dinner. Paige’s contest location should be some kind of public place that’s nice that, importantly, is owned and operated by the  Marindale  Foundation. Brimley Forge isn’t big enough to have a huge concert hall, but some kind of public space that Marvin’s foundation supports…a theater attached to a library or museum? What? Then, after we come up with the place, we need to end the chapter with Gavin wanting to get to work).  “It’s when the day and night are exactly the same length,” said Mom. “It only happens twice a year.” “Sometimes these events affect the tides, but not much else,” said Dad. “They’re mostly just interesting. This one is particularly interesting because it’s happening on the same day as the spring equinox.  Apparently  that only happens every one-hundred and sixty  years. Says here the last time it happened was during the Civil War and (ChatGPT we need more lore about this event…it needs a name and some lore) “Well, I guess we’ll have to mark that on the calendar for next March,” said Mom. “Paige, why don’t you tell us about your day?” But the word Dad had used—syzygy—stuck in my head like a puzzle I wasn’t supposed to understand yet. Lila was still going on about the trampoline  park, and  might have gone on all night were it not for my older sister, Paige. “Take a breath, Lila,” she said. “Maybe let someone else have a turn.” “Who else needs a turn?” Lila said indignantly.   We served ourselves spaghetti. The bowls clinked. Forks scraped. For a moment, the only sound in the house was the gentle hum of everyone finally eating. “So,” Mom said, in that tone that meant Let’s all talk like a functioning family, “Paige has a piano contest coming up.” Paige rolled her eyes. “Mom…” “It’s exciting,” Mom insisted. “Your Rachmaninoff piece—what is it again?” “Prelude in D,” Paige said through a modest shrug, like it was no big deal even though she practiced it like a professional athlete training for nationals. Dad finally looked up from his plate. “Your trills in the middle section are sounding incredible,” he said. “You’re really bringing out the internal voicing.” Paige beamed. Compliments from Dad meant something. Music was one of the few things that cut through the fog of Whatever Adult Stuff Dad Was Going Through. Then, predictably, his eyes wandered sideways toward the card table. Specifically, toward a folded newspaper partially buried under an old water bill. “Hmm,” Dad said. Mom sighed. “Curtis. We are eating.” “I know, I know.” He tugged the paper free anyway and flattened it next to his plate. “But this is interesting.” “What is it now?” Paige muttered. Dad pointed at a tiny graphic printed in the corner of the science section—a little diagram of the sun’s path across the sky. “It says here,” Dad said, tapping it, “that this spring, on March twenty-first, we’re getting a  solar zenith event . The sun will reach its highest possible angle for the entire year—higher than usual , actually, because of  a slight oscillation cycle. Brightest noon we’ll have in decades.” “That sounds made up,” Paige said. “It’s not,” Dad said, smiling faintly—his I-used-to-be-a-genius smile. “For a few minutes that day, the sunlight will hit certain points in town at a perfect angle. Almost like…alignment.” Something in the word  alignment  flicked at the back of my brain—like a tiny light switch that hadn’t quite clicked yet. Mom nudged him. “Earth to Curtis. Dinner.” “Right, right.” He folded the paper but kept a corner of it sticking out, his fingers tapping absently on the diagram like he was holding onto a secret. Paige took a bite and looked across the table at me. “Please tell me you’re not going to spend every weekend at Grandpa’s again,” she said. “I need you here sometimes. Lila is driving me bananas.” “I am  not  driving anyone bananas,” Lila said. “Except maybe Paige, because she’s dramatic.” Paige flicked a noodle at her. Lila gasped like she’d been struck by lightning. Mom gave Paige  The  Look. Dad didn’t notice—he was still tapping that solar chart. And me? I sat there, finally catching my breath, surrounded by noise and warmth and spaghetti and a dining room two sizes too small for a family this big and this loud. The way we were squished together should have been annoying. But honestly? It kind of felt perfect. And now Lila was rapid-fire explaining her whole day and I was good to just sit back in my chair and relax.  breathing heavy as I took my place.  The dinner table had me at one  end;  Dad at the other. Mom and Lila sat on the right  side;  Paige on the left. It had been this way for years.  ( insert  something interesting at dinner ….maybe  Dad says something of note…they’re asking about all three of them quick getting to know, and then Gavin shows off the books.) “What books?” Lila asked. “Just stuff I was interested in,” I said. “What stuff?” “Here, hang on,” I said, reaching down to unzip my backpack. I pulled out the books and set them next to Lila.  “ Ooo …robots,” she said, giggling. “The author’s name is Sparky  McVoltage ?”  “It’s a pen name, obviously,” I said. “Let me see that,” said Paige, snatching the  book on Python programming. “ So  are you  gonna  be a hacker now or something?” “Maybe,” I said. “I don’t know, I just thought it might be interesting to read.” “Well let’s see them,” Mom said  in time for dinner 