CHAPTER 9: raspberry pi assembly and game CL
File: 9 - raspberry pi assembly and game CL.docx
================================================================================

Siggy’s real name was Sigmund. Sigmund Scott Martinez.  But everyone called him Siggy.  Siggy’s dad was in the Air Force . He met Siggy’s mom when he was stationed in Germany. Siggy’s mom spoke in a thick German accent (or rather, a “Bavarian” accent as Siggy once  told me ).  “New Mexi-German” was how Siggy described his family   during  a “My Heritage” presentation for Social Studies . I remember in that same presentation he  added ,  “On Christmas Eve we have tamales and bratwurst .” Siggy wasn’t popular at school. He wasn’t unpopular either. He just… was .  Siggy had this attitude like ,  yep  I’m weird whatever deal with it . If you tried to make fun of Siggy for being weird it would just roll right off him, like if you were trying to make fun of a tall kid for being tall.  I shouldn’t just call him weird, even though that’s the exact word he would use to describe himself. Siggy was  loud, brash, bold, and odd. He was completely himself, completely  wrapped up in his own interests , almost to the point of being oblivious to others.  On my first day of seventh grade, all the friend groups  at Crump  were  pretty locked  in . Nobody was mean to  me  but nobody was eager to bring me in, either. Nobody except Siggy. I think he saw that we were similar in ways I wasn’t ready to admit. Because I too am kind of weird,  doubly  so at the start of seventh grade , when my  own version of   weird  had to share space with  angry  and  resentful .  At lunch  on that first day , I sat alone in the courtyard under a tree with a paperback copy of  Dune  and honestly didn’t care if anyone wanted to talk to me or not. Siggy came up to me, out of the blue, and asked if I preferred the 1980s  Dune  movie or the newer one with Timothy Chalamet. I told him I’d never seen either.  “ Well  we’ve got to fix that right away,” he said. “What are you doing Saturday?” That’s how fast it went. Less than one minute of talking, just a few sentences between us, and Siggy had invited me over.  I knew even on that first day that Siggy wasn’t someone you hung out with if you were trying to work your way up the social ladder. The old me ,  the  kid w ent to Northwood ,  would have found a polite way to turn him down. But the new me, the one who felt like he had already lost everything, didn’t care about the popular group anymore. “I don’t have any plans on Saturday,” I said. “Good, we’ll start with the 80s version. I have it on VHS. We don’t even need to watch the new one, honestly.”  That first visit to Siggy’s house was when I realized that, though he was loud and forceful and odd, he could also be interesting, kind, and genuinely funny. He had this deep fascination with old technology . Old records and r ecord players,  movies on  VHS tape, old computers …his interest in all this stuff made  him naturally handy with gears, motors, and gizmos.  When I hung out with Siggy, we didn’t think at all about our classmates or our teachers or whatever drama was happening in middle school. We were too focused on things, and I loved that. I loved that we were just trying to make things work, and that the  more we made things work,  the it  felt like the world was ours to make and remake in whatever way we wanted.  So  it was no surprise to me that   when Siggy barged into my bedroom that Saturday evening in September and started spreading  the Raspberry Pi and its parts all over my desk , he knew exactly what to do with them.  I’d heard of Raspberry Pi before.  Somewhere  in the back of my mind,  I knew  they were cool  little computers  for smart, techy people.   And since I had  decided  earlier that day  t hat I wanted to be a smart, techy person, I was instantly fascinated.  (sketch of Raspberry Pi 4  on the desk with the other components ). “This is a slightly older model,” Siggy said. “It’s the 4B, which is  basically a full computer that costs less than most video games and is about the size of a deck of cards. Which is insane, when you think about it. ” He flipped the green board over and reached for a tiny plastic case on my desk. He snapped it open and pulled out a small black rectangle. (sketch) “This is a  micro SD  card,” Siggy said, clicking it into a slot on the bottom of the Pi. “This is the hard drive of our tiny computer. Without it, the Pi doesn’t do anything at all.” Next  he connected the  Pi  to the display.  He used his fingernails to flip up a tiny black latch on the board , slid a white ribbon cable into place, and snapped the latch shut.  (show sketch of all this) Then he pulled a tiny USB plug from the back of the mini keyboard.  “This is the dongle,” he said, holding it up. “Very important that you call it by its correct name because it’s such a funny word. Dongle.” “Dongle,” I repeated. Siggy  proceed to make an  R-rated joke about dongles that I won’t repeat here.  Then he put the dongle into one of the blue slots on the Pi. “Blue means fast,” he muttered. (show sketch) Finally, he grabbed the black power cord. He looked at me with a grin and slid  it  into the side of the board. “Power goes last— always  last ,” he  said  “ because the moment you give it power, it wakes up.” A tiny red light flickered to life, followed by a blinking green one.  “It’s alive,” he whispered.  Text began to scroll down the screen, white letters on a black background, moving faster than I could read.  “What is all that?” I  said .  “That, my friend,” Siggy said, “is Linux.” He said the word with reverence, and I was right there with him.  “ I’ve always wanted to learn Linux,” I said.  Hackers used Linux. Tony Stark used Linux.  “It’s easy,” Siggy said. “Once you learn it ,  you’ll like it better than any other operating system.” Operating system .   I nodded like I understood, even though I wasn’t totally sure what  the words  meant. I wanted to ask Siggy to explain, but I was embarrassed by how much I didn’t know yet. So much to learn. The scrolling stopped, and  a familiar  computer desktop  screen appeared.  “Raspberry Pi runs its own version of Linux,” Siggy explained, already  moving  the mouse. “It’s basically an operating system for people who like knowing what their computer is actually doing.” I nodded like I understood. “Now,” he said,  lowering his voice a little,  “this is the weird part .  This Verne  Mulpitt  guy, or whoever sent this,  clearly wanted me to see what was on this drive. ” He grabbed the USB drive that was on the desk. (show sketch)  “ Why they sent me a whole Raspberry Pi setup  is confusing,” Siggy said .  “ I could have just plugged  this  drive into  any old computer. Of course, a lot of things about this are confusing. More than confusing. Spooky, really. I’m trying not to think about it too  much  so I don’t freak out.” I was right there with him. This was all so weird and happening so fast that I hadn’t had time to consider, really consider, what Siggy had told me. Some guy named Verne  had sent Siggy a box of mysterious stuff hidden inside the cases of his favorite movies. And then there was the part that we weren’t really talking about. The part about Verne being dead.  There had to be another explanation to all this. A prank. Some kind of elaborate joke.  As Siggy plugged the USB drive into the Pi, I wondered, just for a second, if the prank was on me. Was Siggy playing some kind of game with me? No, no I don’t think he is. I’d only known Siggy for a few weeks, but I already felt like I knew him well enough to know that pranks weren’t his style.  “Huh,” I said.  “Huh is right,” said Siggy. “This is all a giant mystery at this point.” “We should go to this address,” I said, pointing at the return address on the box. “We should see if this guy had a wife or  kids  or something, someone who might know why you got this box.” “Good idea,” said Siggy. “But first you need to play this game.”  “Game?” “Just wait,” said Siggy. “This gets even weirder.”  (show sketch  – Raspberry Pi with USB plugged in ) “ So  here’s the thing about Linux ,” Siggy said.   “ Games don’t usually install themselves. You go find them.” “ You’re saying this guy sent you a game? Like a video game?” “Just watch,” said Siggy. “We’re almost there.”  He opened a file manager and typed a command. More white text spilled across the screen. I leaned closer. “This is the command line,” Siggy said. “It’s like talking directly to the computer instead of asking politely through menus.” “That seems dangerous.” He grinned. “For  normal people  it is. But for people who know what they’re doing, it’s way better.”  His fingers moved quickly, confidently.  (show screenshots) “How did you learn to do all this?” I  said .  “You can learn anything now with the Internet and AI,”  Siggy said . “But I actually learned how to use a Pi from a book.” I almost laughed. Siggy and my grandpa,  both of them  learning the hard way, one page at a time.  “Here,” Siggy said, reaching into his backpack. “I   brought it for you.” He pulled out a small booklet called  Using the Raspberry Pi  and handed it to me.  Now I had five new books to read.  “I’m actually  gonna  leave all this here tonight,” Siggy said. “What? You mean the Pi?” I liked that I was already calling it ‘the Pi.’ However techy people said it, that’s how I wanted to say it.  “Yeah,”  he said , like it was nothing . “I ’ve been  playing around with this all afternoon and gotten nowhere.  Need a fresh pair of eyes.” He typed one  last  command and the screen changed.  “And here it is,” he said. “ All this, these mysterious movie cases, this strange box of goodies, a Raspberry Pi and a USB drive inside…it all comes down to this.” The screen went black.  It stayed black for two ominous seconds. Then in the center of the screen, white text scrolled in.  “ Greetings, person from the future…”    (show  title screen  as sketch) “What the heck is this?” I  said .  “Just wait,” said Siggy. “It gets weirder.”  The text faded. Another second of empty black screen. Then… ( screenshot  – “Aliens are trying to build a wormhole to invade the Earth. They are close. I need your help. We have to stop them.”) “It’s an adventure game,” said Siggy, “and I want you to play it.”  The name appeared in blocky letters. My stomach did a weird little flip. “Wait,” I said. “That game?” Siggy nodded. “The one Marvin Marindale made. The one that was supposed to be lost. Apparently, someone didn’t want it lost.” He double-clicked. The screen went dark. Then— A low electronic hum. A splash of pixelated stars. And suddenly, right there on my monitor, the opening screen appeared: GALAXY PIZZA DELIVERY Press Any Key to Begin Siggy leaned back in my chair, satisfied. “Told you, ” he  said. “Computers are way cooler when you know where to look.” His real name is Sigmund.  Sigmund Bumbach.  But he goes by Siggy.  Siggy  Siggy was exceptionally nerdy. Like,  born five years ahead of his time  nerdy. He loved video games, old computers, new computers, imaginary computers, and computers that only existed because he’d once dreamed about them and then couldn’t stop talking about them for three straight days. He was also…a little hard to be around sometimes.