CHAPTER 3: brimley forge and atlas
File: 3 - brimley forge and atlas.docx
================================================================================

My name is Gavin Holloway, by the way. Nice to meet you. I live in Brimley Forge, New Mexico. Brimley Forge sits halfway between Santa Fe and Taos along the old San Gabriel Trail (which is now Highway 618).  “Our city started out as a dusty little supply post called Gristle Creek,” Grandpa said. We were bouncing down Ninth Street in his old pickup truck, headed toward the Atlas Library, whatever that was.  “Like Gristle Creek College!” I said, which was one of the schools where my dad taught. “Precisely,” said Grandpa. “This was just a tiny stop in the Old West until 1829, when a man named Elias Crump discovered silver in Gristle Creek.” “My school’s named after Elias Crump,” I said. “Lots of things in town are named after him,” said Grandpa. “ All of this, our whole city, started up when he found silver, because back then, if anyone found silver anywhere, word got out. Our little town’s population quickly doubled, then tripled, then quadrupled.” “Because people were looking for silver?” I asked. “That’s right,” Grandpa said. “We live in a silver rush town.” I had heard of a  gold rush  before, but never a silver rush. Kinda cool, I thought. I’ve always thought silver was a little cooler than gold, even though I know gold is worth a lot more money. “By the 1840s, Gristle Creek was hopping,” Grandpa said, “but people were learning there wasn’t  actually a  lot of silver here. What we did have, in spades, was iron ore.” This part of the story I’d heard before. “We learned about that in school last year,” I said. “Everyone was pulling iron ore out of the mountains to make steel.”  “Yeah? What else did you learn?” “I learned that a man named Jonathan Brimley built the biggest steel factory, and that’s why the town is named after him,” I said. “Right you are,” said Grandpa. “Jonathan Brimley built a steel plant right in what’s now downtown. It was called Brimley’s furnace at first, because it was all about melting iron to make steel. But in time, that became just a part of his business. The other part, the bigger part, was the forge.” “What the heck is a forge anyway?” I  said .  Grandpa made a satisfied little grunt, like he had been  waiting  for me to ask that. “A forge,” he said, “is where metal is born.” I laughed.  “What do you mean, born?” “You ever seen metal when it’s fresh out of the mountain? ” Grandpa said.   “ It’s useless. It’s rock. Ugly, stubborn rock with bits of iron inside it. If you tried to build anything with it, it’d crumble in your hands. To make steel   you  have to  melt the rock, get the iron out, heat it up till it’s glowing like lava, and  beat the living daylights out of it .” “Beat it?” I  said . Grandpa grinned. “With  giant hammers .” I sat up straighter. “No way.” “Oh yes way,” Grandpa said. “Picture this: a big stone room, hotter than a dragon’s stomach. Fires roaring. Sparks everywhere. Bars of iron pulled straight from the furnace, glowing bright orange, like someone cut a piece of the sun into rectangles. And right in the middle … WHAM!” He slapped the steering wheel with his palm so hard I jumped. “That’s the giant hammer,” he said. “A mechanical hammer called a trip hammer. Big as a school bus. It slams down  again and again . WHAM. WHAM. WHAM. Every hit makes the metal stronger. ” “Why does hitting it make it stronger?”  Grandpa smiled . He loved  nerding  out about making stuff.  “When metal is hot and you smash it,” he said, “the tiny  structures inside it  get packed in. And packed-in metal is tough metal. It’s like taking a snowball and squishing it so tight it turns into a snow - brick. Except instead of snow, it’s glowing iron that just came out of a  furnace so hot it might as well be a volcano .” “That’s so cool,” I said. “It  is  cool,” Grandpa said. “Well—hot. Very hot. And in addition to hardening the metal, those hammer blows also  shaped it .  You hit it while it’s hot, you turn it and hit it again. Learn the right pattern to hit  and turn it  and you can make it boxy, or flat, or sharp. ” “That sounds awesome!” I  said . “It was awesome,” Grandpa said. “And loud. They said you could hear Brimley’s forge all the way from the far hills. The whole town shook when the big hammers were working.  Kids back then grew up thinking the earth jus t  rumbled sometimes, because the trip hammers never stopped.” “What did they make?” I asked. “Oh, all sorts of things,” Grandpa said. “Steel rails for the train lines. Tools for digging and mining. Big beams for bridges.  Horseshoes and hammers.  All the stuff a booming frontier town needed. But the real money came when Brimley started making parts for weapons.” “What kind of parts?” I asked. “Frontier factories out here didn’t usually build whole rifles or cannons,” Grandpa said. “That work mostly happened back east. But Brimley’s Forge made the metal  pieces —the barrel blanks ,  breech plates, the iron fittings that gunsmiths back east used to assemble rifles.  They made wheel rings for the cannons.  They’d make the parts and then put them right on the train to be shipped to another factory.” “ They made  cannons?” I  said . I’ve always loved cannons.  “They made hardware for cannons,” Grandpa said. “Rings for the wheels,  in particular.” I imagined workers hauling glowing metal rings and hammering them into shape for cannon wheels. “ So  they didn’t make the whole cannon?” I  said . “Nope.  They just made one small part .  That’s how most manufacturing works, even back then .  You get  really good  at making a couple pieces and parts, and you make a bunch of them , and some other factory who’s good at making other parts makes those parts.  Everyone gets  really good  at making their own little part, and when it’s time to assemble the whole thing, all the pieces and parts are world class. It’s kind of magical when you think about it, the way people have organized themselves to create our amazing world.  Grandpa was grinning ear to ear at this point.  I was too.  I stared out the window, imagining  a giant hammer crashing down, sending sparks across the floor like fireworks ,  workers flipping glowing steel with huge tongs ,  the walls shaking ,  the ground thundering like an earthquake made of metal , all of it happening in a giant old building. Like the one just ahead of us. “Grandpa, what’s that big building up ahead?”  It was a huge, boxy brick building. It  towered  over the surrounding area , making everything else look small in comparison. “That, Dear Grandson, ” Grandpa said,   “ is Brimley ’s  Forge.” “That’s the original building?” I  said . “That’s where they made all that stuff?”  Grandpa nodded.  “Is it open? Are they still making things?” “They don’t make things there anymore, but it  is  open. It’s where we’re  going, actually .” “I thought you said we were going to a library.” “We are,” said Grandpa.  “The hammers at Brimley’s Forge stopped hammering in the late 1960s, and the building sat empty for decades. But big ,  beautiful brick buildings like that one  don’t  die unless you kill them. About fifteen years ago, a man named Marvin Marindale   decided to bring Brimley’s forge back to life, as a library.” “They built the old factory into a library?” Grandpa nodded. “Marvin Marindale, when he was alive, was the richest person in our town, and he made it happen, God love him. Best repurposing of a building I’ve ever seen.” We were approaching the building now.  A giant, blocky brick building , surprisingly tall, with  iron-framed windows, thick stone trim around the enormous front doors. It looked like  a giant brick box  set it down in the middle of a mostly forgotten neighborhood. Grandpa pulled into a nearly empty parking lot. A few cars were scattered around, but that was it. “ Why is no one  here?” I asked. “ Beats me,” said Grandpa. “This library is a gosh-darned treasure in our town, but not many people come here. You didn’t even know it existed!” I laughed. “I sure didn’t. ”   “You and your family did the opposite of what everyone else in town is doing ,” Grandpa said.   “ Everyone wants to move north to where all the new stuff is. That means houses are cheaper here in the south part of town. Very smart of your parents to move this way. I’ve been advocating for it for years.” “You have?” I  said . “Oh yeah,” said Grandpa. “Everyone on the north end of town walks around like they’ve got a stick stuck in their pa- tooty . The north end of town is where everything is shiny and new. The south end of town has  characters , like me. Characters aren’t fashionable anymore.”   We were parked in the near-empty lot now. Grandpa  shut off the engine. We got out. A gust of wind pushed across the lot, lifting grit ,  dry leaves , and  a  plastic  grocery  bag .  I knew that Grandpa was  trying to put a good spin on my unfortunate situation. I knew the  real reason we’d moved south was because we couldn’t afford the north side  of town  anymore .  But I liked Grandpa’s spin. I liked that he believed this part of town wasn’t  just a place where you could save money. It was  valuable  in  its own ways. I liked that he said the south end of town was for  characters , like him.  Grandpa certainly was a character. Maybe, now that I lived here, I could be a character too.  As we approached the magnificent  doors of the  Atlas Library,  the former forge for which our town was named, for the first time in months, I felt  content, like this all was going to be okay. For the first time  in a long time , I felt  happy to be where I was.  (end chapter)  The neighborhood felt quiet in that way old neighborhoods do—like time had slowed down here, taking a nap. A giant, blocky brick building—impossibly tall, iron-framed windows, thick stone trim around the enormous front doors. It looked like someone had taken a castle, sanded off the turrets, and set it down in the middle of a mostly forgotten neighborhood. “About fifteen years ago, a man named Marvin Marindale, heir to the biggest fortune in town, decided we needed to bring back    We passed a boarded-up pawn shop, a thrift store with flickering neon, and a shuttered diner whose faded sign said PANCAKES 24 HOURS even though it clearly had not served pancakes for at least twenty-four years. It looked really,  really old .  Grandpa just smiled. “A place that hits you just as hard as any trip hammer—only with ideas.” As the 20th century marched ahead, the silver veins dried up. The iron ran low. The forge went cold. Fortunes built in the 1800s were spent in the 1900s   and not replenished.  By the 1970s, for the first time in generations, people started leaving. Some thought the town might disappear entirely ,  a little piece of forgotten blight in the mountains north of Santa Fe. But a town full of miners, metalsmiths, and machinists, sitting just up the road from two national laboratories, was too valuable to fade away. In 1977,  the  Tanthrop  Hammond  company  moved in. A defense contractor with deep pockets and government ties, they built their headquarters on the edge of town, hiring up what was left of the old industry and bringing in new blood. Brimley Forge  came back to life as a small but modern city. But,  as often happens in stories like this, as a new part of the city came to life, built around the  Tanthrop  Hammond company, the old part of the city started to die. The forge for which the town was named, a giant brick box of a building near downtown, had gone cold and empty, and, in time, turned dilapidated and dangerous. Grandpa told me once that the town came within days of tearing the old building down. “That is, until Marvin Marindale decided to save it,” Grandpa had said.  Marvin Marindale, eccentric billionaire, heir to the  Marindale  family silver fortune, lover of old books about math and science, donated a chunk of his money to rebuild the old forge. And turn it into a library.  The Atlas.  The weirdest, most wonderful library on Earth.  A giant brick box of a building that once was a burning hearth of iron, hammers, and steel, was now five stories of books.  And other library- ish  oddities like old maps and weird tools and secret basement rooms.  Grandpa’s truck rattled as we headed down Ninth Street, past the stretch of old brick buildings that all looked like they’d once been important and were now tired in a dignified kind of way—like retired superheroes waiting for one more adventure. “The Atlas is around here somewhere,” I said. “Oh, you’ll know it when you see it,” Grandpa replied. “Hard to miss. Five stories tall. Used to be a factory back when Brimley Forge was still full of iron and ore and clever people trying to turn rocks into useful things. The whole building used to shake from the hammering. They say you could feel it from blocks away.”