CHAPTER 5: checking out books
File: 5 - checking out books.docx
================================================================================

You know what I’ve always wanted to do? Make my own video games. And I don’t mean the “build-your-own-level” kind of thing, like  Super Mario Maker . Or making obstacle courses in  Roblox . Or coding little  redstone  contraptions in  Minecraft . I mean  from scratch .  I’m talking about starting with a totally blank screen and, through some combination of genius-level coding and artistic wizardry, creating a massive adventure  game  of my own. Something big enough and cool enough that my friends would  get totally immersed in the story and  freak out  at how awesome it is.  Of course, I also wanted to build robots, invent cool electronic gizmos, and basically be that awesome, brilliant engineer , the guy who’s so good at tech that it’s like a  super power . Like Tony Stark in the  Iron Man  movies.  And I wanted to be good at math and science. Like… REALLY good . I wanted to be the guy who could  figure out how to save the world if you just  gave  me a giant chalkboard I  could  fill up with  hard equations and diagrams of weird 3D shapes.  I’m telling you all this because, as Raven led me deeper into the Atlas ,  and I walked past shelf after shelf of books ,  books full of everything anyone could ever want to know ,  I felt something I hadn’t felt in a long time .  Possibility .  No, more than possibility.  Excitement .  Motivation .  I could  just  learn all this stuff, couldn’t I?  I mean, if I really wanted to .  I f I really set my mind to it , and  got serious about not wasting time doing dumb things that I didn’t  even enjoy that much , like watch ing  TV for hours, or  scrolling  through mindless short videos on  my phone , or  losing  whole Sunday afternoons gaming  online  with my friends , or playing goofy time-waster  apps on my phone , or watching  endless livestreams  of other people playing video games … If I cut back on even half of that, or cut some of it out of my life altogether… GOOD GRIEF ,  there was  so much time  available to me  if I just used it  to make myself into the person I wanted to be, to  do something  with my life . This  realization  was hitting me all at once , right there between two dusty old bookshelves. And it blows my mind to think about it now, because that day could’ve easily been just another Saturday of zombie-loafing in front of a glowing screen , but instead , Grandpa dragged me to the library, and I ended up wandering through a maze of bookshelves having an honest-to-goodness life - changing revelation.    And  the revelation was this:  I want to get good at technology, science, engineering, and math, so good that it becomes a kind of superpower , and I can get good at it if I’m willing to put in the work. As Raven led me past a shelf of old physics and astronomy  books ,  I started thinking about other kids I knew who had already  focused  on something and were getting incredible results. Like my friend Omar, from the neighborhood,  who practiced soccer at the playground every night . Or Bailey, a girl from my old school, who  played on three  different  volleyball teams all year long . Or  this kid I saw  in  a  Youtube   documentary  once . His name  was  Chet,  and he started practicing  to be  an  NFL quarterback when he was six.  Now he’s apparently one of the best high school quarterbacks in the country.  Or Paige, my older sister, who got  really good  at piano over the past three years simply by practicing  every single day .  Or  me , Gavin Holloway . Yes,  me, because I  too  had practiced something  every day  for the  past couple years.  And I had gotten REALLY,  REALLY good  at it. And it was not  coding.  Not robotics. Not math, or anything else I dreamed of being good at. Nope. What I practiced every single day was a mobile game called  Sunrunner  X , which I can now speedrun start to finish without losing a single life.  How many hours had I sunk into that stupid game? Hundreds? Thousands? All those afternoons slumped on the couch, my phone  a few  inches from my face, laser-focused on helping a pixelated little guy avoid shiny obstacles flying at him at warp speed? My legs felt wobbly as the thought hit me: If I had spent even half of that time learning to code, I could have made my own adventure game by now.  My dream of making a whole virtual world I could share with my friends would already have come true.  That’s it , I thought.  No more  Sunrunner  X  for me . As we continued walking through the stacks, I pulled out my phone and deleted the app. Boom. Done. No more of that stupid game. And that was just the beginning of the garbage I could remove from my life. Watching  Youtube  streams of people playing video games? I  probably did that for a good hour a day . What if I  cut it to an  hour a week? Then  I’d have time  to learn robotics too.  And what of all the mindless TV I watched? Sometimes I would binge-watch an entire series in a week. What if I stopped doing that? Then I’d have time to learn more math. More science. More engineering.   We were walking down an aisle full of chemistry books, and the gravity of how much I could learn if I wanted to  was  extraordinary.  “I’m  gonna  do it,” I whispered. “All of it.” Raven turned around. “What was that?” “Nothing. Just talking to myself.” She smiled. “I do that too. All the time. ” We turned a corner to find a bookshelf that held book numbers 600 – 700 on it.  “Here we are,” Raven said. “Let’s find your book on robotics.” (show sketch of bookshelf) I’m embarrassed to say that it wasn’t until 7 th  grade, when I was almost 13 years old, that I learned the magic of a good library.  Because I didn’t just find a book on robotics that day.  I also found a book on coding in the Python programming language. And  a book on how to  solve  math problems in your head.  And one on making video games using the educational web site,  Scratch .  “Now  your  to-be-read pile as big as mine,” Raven said with a smile.  Actually, it  wasn’t. I knew this because we set our stacks of books side by side on a table and her pile was  definitely taller . (sketch – two piles of books) An announcement came over the library’s intercom.  Attention all patrons, the library will be closing in five minutes. “Come on,”  Raven said . “We need to check out.”  We ran down the stairs, nearly at a sprint, or as much of a sprint as we could do with our arms full of books.  We arrived at the counter in a huff, only to find a small line of people  already  there.  “Where’d all these people come from?” I whispered. “Is it me, or did it feel like the library was empty?” Raven shrugged. “Don’t worry. They won’t close until we’ve checked out. You have your library card?” Uh-oh.  “No…I, uh--” Why didn’t Grandpa tell me I needed a library card? “No problem ,” said Raven. “Give me your books.” I looked at her, confused.  A second  librarian, a skinny man with a long beard, stepped behind the counter  and opened another terminal . “Next in line,”  he barked. Raven held out her stack. “Put your books on top of mine,” she ordered. So  I did.  “Come on, kids, we’re closing,” the skinny man said.  We hurried forward, and Raven plopped the entire wobbling tower of books onto the desk.  I don’t know why, but I thought the librarian might  interrogate us about the size of a stack. It did seem like a lot of books to just be taking home on trust.  But  he didn’t say a word.   He just scanned Raven’s library card, then started machine-gunning the books with his barcode scanner. As he  worked , Raven  leaned closer to me and said , “You could come over tomorrow...if you want.”  “To your house?” I  said . “Yeah,” she said, with a laugh. “Bring your books. We can read together.” The skinny man pushed  the finished stack towards us.  “Next!” Read together? “Okay, yeah, sure,” I said.  Raven quickly separated our  books  and slid mine  across the counter.  We started toward the lobby, where Grandpa and Raven’s mom were seated across from each other on the couches.  “Excellent,”  Raven  said. “Bring all your books,  just in case  one of  them’s  boring.” Ahead of us, Raven’s mom and Grandpa both stood up. I don’t know why, but I was feeling anxious to wrap up this conversation before Grandpa  was in earshot.  I turned to Raven. “How do I--” But she wasn’t beside me anymore.  She’d gone back to the checkout desk and was writing something on the receipt the librarian had tucked in her stack.  Attention all patrons, the library is  now closed. In the lobby, Grandpa  waved for me  to hurry up. I opened my mouth to yell,  Just  a second , but then I realized I was in a library and shouldn’t yell, so I awkwardly held up one finger  like some confused traffic cop , then went back to the desk where Raven was writing.  “Here’s my number,” she said, pushing the receipt into my hand. “Text me tonight and we’ll set it up. And save that receipt!  Don’t you dare let those books get overdue. I’ve never been even a day late on a library book in my life.” “Got it,” I said.  “Kids, library’s closed, time to go,” a librarian said to us.  “Thank you, we were just leaving,” said Raven.    I didn’t finish my question, because she was already writing something on the receipt the librarian had stuffed in her books.  “Here, take this, send me a message tonight,” Raven said, thrusting a library receipt at me.  “I’ll message you in the chat,” Raven said, a reference to  zapped every book with his bar code  scanner, and  pushed the pile back to us.  “Next!” We were in such a  with barely five minutes left before the library closed. Raven said to me, “You could come over tomorrow…if you want.” I was confused about what she meant, because sometimes I’m slow.  “To your house?” I  said . “Yeah,” she said, with a laugh. “Bring your books. We could read together.”   arrived at the front counter with three minutes left before the library closed. “Find everything you were looking for?” said the librarian. “Yes, I did,” I said. The librarian stamped our books and slid them across the counter. Raven scooped hers up in a neat stack, like someone who did this all the time.  I was a little  more clumsy  with my  books, and  accidentally dropped one  on the floor .  Oops. The book I dropped was the one on robotics. It was titled Robot Building: A Beginner’s Guide for Clever Humans. I had pulled this one off the shelf because, no joke, the author’s name was Sparky McVoltage .  (show book lying open on the floor) I reached down to pick it up, and as I did, a little slip of paper fell out from between the pages and fluttered back to the ground. “ Ooo …there’s a note in here,” said Raven, reaching for it. “I love it when you find little prizes like this in library books.” She snatched it from the floor   “ As we headed back to the lobby, where Grandpa was sitting on a couch opposite Raven’s mom, each with their own piles of books in their laps, Raven said to me, “You  could  come over  tomorrow …if you want.” I was confused about what she meant, because sometimes I’m slow.  “To your house?” I  said . “Yeah,” she said , with a laugh . “Bring your books. We could read together.”  We’re close now.” and was really,  really good  at it now, and that thing I’d practiced was the mobile game  Starrunner  X, which I could speedrun from start to finish without ever losing a life. How many hours had I spent noodling around on that game to get so good at it? How much time had I been slumped back on the couch, my phone 8 inches from my face, my eyes locked on this little guy who had to avoid shiny obstacles that were constantly flying at him?  It hit me kind of hard, so much that my legs felt a little weak, when I realized that, instead of playing  Starrunner  X for hours every day, I could have been learning how to code. I probably could have made my own adventure video game by now, just like I’d always dreamed of doing.  My dream could already be a reality if I’d just been working on it.  “I’m  gonna  work on it now,” I whispered to myself. “All of it.” Raven turned around. “ What was that ?” “Nothing, just talking to myself,” I said.  She smiled. “I do that too,” she said. “All the time.  We’re getting close now.”     