CHAPTER 2: circuit lesson
File: 2 - circuit lesson.docx
================================================================================

I’m going to show you the circuit Grandpa taught me to build that day.  You can just read along if you like, but it will be a lot more fun if you  actually  build  it. The materials  are easy to find . There’s even a kit you can buy  with  everything you need to do all the projects  in this book . Now, just so you know—this didn’t go perfectly  for me  the first time.  At one point I had the LED in backwards. Several times I had wires in the wrong rows, even though it looked like they were in the right ones.  B ut in the end, I got it to work, and you can too . Here’s  what you’ll need : - A breadboard (a plastic tool for prototyping circuits) - Some LEDs (get a few extras in case you burn some out) - Some jumper wires - A 330-Ohm resistor - A 9-volt battery and a 9-volt battery clip Step 1:   Clip the battery into your battery  clip . Now you’ve got two wires: one red, one black.   And here’s the first thing you should learn about doing electronics like this: Red  means positive , and  black means negative . SAFETY NOTE: You are now a real electronics engineer using real electronics prototyping equipment. All the electronics toys and gizmos you’ve ever used in your life have built-in safety features that you probably didn’t even know about. But when you are doing real engineering, like you are, the person designing the safety features is YOU.  And now that you’ve plugged in the clip to your battery, it’s time for you to  be in charge of  the first safety feature. Do not hold the metal wires of your clip together. This creates what’s called an unloaded circuit, which means the electricity is just flowing in a constant circle without any work to do. Without any work to do, the electricity will start to turn into heat. If you let an unloaded circuit sit for  a long time   you can generate enough heat to create a potential safety hazard.   Step 2:   Take the red (positive) wire and insert it into the  positive rail  on your breadboard. Something for you to know: Your breadboard has a plastic backing on it, which is meant to be there (don’t peel it off!). If you did peel it off (which you shouldn’t), you would see metal columns and rows. Look how, on the left and right side of the board, single pieces of metal go straight up and down, but in the middle, the metal is in short rows.  If you peeled away the backing of your breadboard, you’d see metal strips arranged in rows and columns. On the edges the metal is aligned in long columns. In the middle the metal is in short rows. These metal strips are how electricity flows through the breadboard. When we put electrical components in the breadboard, they  make contact with  the metal rails under the holes, then electrical current flows through the components and the metal rails. If you want electricity from the battery wire to flow to another component, we need to connect that component to one of the holes in the same column.  So  we will.  Step 3:  Use a jumper wire to connect the  positive rail  to  the  main grid, like this (show image): Step 4 : Attach one leg of the resistor to a hole next to your jumper wire, and another leg into a hole in a different row. Current flows through your resistor, just like it flows through your jumper wire, but the resistor has another job as well. The resistor provides  resistance  in the circuit. Some of the electricity will be turned into heat when it flows through the resistor, which results in what we call a “voltage drop.” This is important because a 9-volt battery provides too much voltage for a simple LED.  And now it’s time for another  safety note : Are you wearing eye protection? If you’re not, I suggest that you do. Sometimes when making a circuit, you make a mistake, and a component can overheat. Usually when a component overheats the material inside it starts to melt or smoke. It’s no big deal if that happens (electrical engineers jokingly call it “magic smoke” because it’s such a common part of making circuits). If that happens to  you, just disconnect the battery from your circuit, let everything cool down, and then throw away the component that has burned out.  But sometimes (very rarely, to be honest) when a component overheats, it does more than melt and smoke. Sometimes, if you made a wiring mistake that resulted in a component getting  really hot   really fast , it  pops . That’s when you want eye protection, because there might be tiny bits of plastic  flying about.  Don’t worry ,  it’s  very  rare  that you’ll pop a component , and when it happens it’s usually just a tiny ‘pop’ and a little puff of the magic smoke.   Step 5:  Now insert your  LED . This component is a little different than the others. LED stands for “Light Emitting Diode,” and that “diode” part means it is directional. It only works one way.  LED stands for  Light Emitting Diode.   A  diode  only allows  electrical  current to flow in one direction. Remember, the   longer leg   of an LED is  the positive leg . It  must face the  positive terminal of your power  source  or it won’t work. Step 6:  Stretch the other leg of the LED across the middle of the breadboard.  Step 7:  You’re nearly done!  Use another jumper wire to connect the other leg of the LED to the  negative rail  on the breadboard. Step  8 : Now insert the black (negative) battery wire into the negative rail like this: If your circuit’s working, your LED should be glowing right now.  But here’s the deal: for many of you, the LED isn’t glowing right now, and if that’s the case, go back to Step 1 and double-check everything. Common mistakes are inserting the LED backwards or not having components lined up in the same row. If you’ve double-checked it and it still doesn’t work, read this footnote. Once you get it working, you should write some notes in your favorite notebook (and if you don’t have a favorite notebook, you should get one). I haven’t told you about my favorite notebook yet, the Dragon Notebook. Don’t worry, I’ll tell you all about it soon enough. The Dragon Notebook is a HUGE part of the story you’re reading. For now, I’m just  gonna  show you the notes I wrote in the Dragon Notebook on  the day  Grandpa helped me build  a circuit  that lit  an LED:  I know it’s just a simple circuit, and all it did was light up one LED, but I was so, so excited when the LED started to glow.  A tiny red dot, no brighter than a Christmas light, but it felt like it lit up my whole face. “This is awesome,” I whispered,  admiring  the glowing LED. “I agree,” said Grandpa. “ This is a good start.  But before I go and buy you more parts, I want you to show me that you completely understand what you’ve just built. ” “I feel like I understand what’s happening here pretty well,” I said. “Okay, tell me.” “Electricity is coming from the battery and it’s flowing through these wires, through this resistor, through the LED, and it’s lighting up the LED,” I said. “Not bad,” said Grandpa. “But here’s a question for you: What is electricity?” I paused for a second, thinking about how to answer. I mean…I know what electricity is. We all do. It’s the stuff that lights up our houses and makes our computers work. It comes out of power outlets in the wall, or batteries. It’s  super fast  and powerful and makes zig- zaggy  lines as it moves. ” “It’s like…power,” I said. “In science, power is just a measurement of energy per second,” Grandpa said. “Try again.” “It’s like lightning,” I said.  “Lightning is indeed a form of electricity,” said Grandpa. “But what is it? What is it made of?” “I guess I don’t know.  I’ll look it up. ” I pulled my phone from my pocket to look up a definition of electricity, but then Grandpa,  in a very Grandpa- ish   moment,  snatched it right from my hands.  “Don’t let the hive mind give you the easy answer!” he snapped. “So where am I supposed to learn about electricity, then?” I  said .   “You’ll learn it better and it will be more meaningful to you if you have to work for it a little,” Grandpa said. “Find a book. There have been thousands of books written about electricity. I bet there are a thousand more written about robotics.”  I sighed. “Grandpa, if I order a book today the earliest it will be here is tomorrow, and I want to do this now.” Grandpa laughed. “The world is full of miracles and you kids don’t even know it. Order a book and it arrives on your doorstep the next morning? Insanity. But I’m not talking about buying a book. Go to the library.” Now I was feeling defensive, and a little  sad . At our old house, there was a library just down the street. You could walk there in just a few minutes, and I frequently did. I really missed my old neighborhood. “Grandpa I don’t even know where the libraries are on this side of town.” “Are you kidding? The best libraries in Brimley Forge are all here on the south end of town! The Atlas is a quick bus ride down 9 th  street.”  “The Atlas?” “Oh, come on,” Grandpa said , setting down my phone on the workbench and reaching for his jacket .  “They close in an hour. I’ll take you there myself.”    