CHAPTER 7: gavin studying
File: 7 - gavin studying.docx
================================================================================

Four new library books.  Is it weird that I was so excited about them? This is the new me , I told myself.  I want to get so good at math, science, and tech that it becomes a  super power . That it becomes   my talent .  And I start now. One book about mental math. Two about computer programming. One about robotics.  Where to begin? I decided not to decide . I would let fate  pick the first book for me .    I  removed  the books from my backpack and stacked them carefully on my desk. Whatever order they landed in, that would  be the  order of my attack. (sketch – a slightly crooked stack of books) The book  on top of the stack was  The Human Calculator .  Here we go.  I opened the book, about to skip ahead to  Chapter One ,  when  something on the inside cover caught my eye. It was a fancy sticker , so melded into the book over time that I wouldn’t be able to remove it if I tried .  The sticker  showed a monk  who was deep in thought. He was surrounded by numbers and symbols, like he was a genius who was  thinking about math .  And there was a name.  H ere,  take  a look: (sketch of Marvin Marindale bookplate). Marvin Marindale .  The same name from the plaque in the library. The guy Grandpa told me about.  Had this been his book? Or was this sticker inside every book from the Atlas Library? Whatever,  don’t get distracted, I told myself. I turned the page  and started reading Page 1. (show page 1 of the book with this text):  THE HUMAN CALCULATOR by Professor  Emmitt   Hawkinstench , PhD If you picked up this book hoping to learn a hundred clever tricks that will magically turn you into a mental math genius overnight, I have  bad news for you. It doesn’t work that way. Yes, there are fantastic tricks that can help you, and in this  book  I’ve written every trick I know.  But every one of them requires many hours of  practice  before you can use them effectively.   There was that word again. Practice.  What’s funny is, as I was reading this, right outside my door, in our small, crowded house, Paige had just started practicing the piano, as she did every night. She was working on a section of her piece, playing just a few measures, slowly,  over and over again .  Was  it as simple as that ? Was every  super power  and talent tied  in to  this one idea?  Practice. I kept reading.  This book  does  contain plenty of clever techniques , such as  ways to multiply big numbers in your head,  or  spot patterns instantly . When you are done, and you’ve practiced, you will be able to  make calculations that seem impossible to people watching you.  But none of  these tricks  will work unless you are already lightning-fast at the four basic operations: addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division with single-digit numbers. And yes, that means memorization. Somewhere along the way, modern schools decided that memorization and understanding were enemies.  What poppycock! Memorization feeds understanding, and what’s more, memorization is  necessary   when acquiring a skill .  Can you imagine someone trying to learn to act without ever memorizing any lines? Can you imagine someone trying to learn an instrument without ever memorizing any music? Can you imagine someone learning to play a sport, like basketball, without ever memorizing the rules?  Reading Professor Hawkinstench’s book, I thought about how Paige learned a piano piece.  First  she’d spend weeks practicing it slowly, getting all the notes and patterns down; then she’d spend weeks more learning how  play  it without ever looking at the music.  Now my mind was alight with all sorts of ideas and excitement about how I could approach all this. I wanted to be a  master of science  and engineering like Iron Man or  Mr. Wizard or  the Professor character on that old show about people stranded on a desert island .  And I felt like  Professor  Hawkinstench   was giving me a roadmap of how to do it.  I  opened up  my Dragon Notebook and wrote down the two words that were buzzing in my mind: (sketch of notebook page with two words: practice, and memorization)    This was going to be my strategy. I wasn’t just going to learn things. I wasn’t just going to read books. I was going to practice things I wanted to get good  at, and  memorize the most important parts.  I turned back to Professor Hawkinstench’s book.  I can’t imagine what sort of madness came over our schools when, some twenty years ago, they stopped insisting that children memorize simple math facts. If you’re one of those unlucky students who never had to memorize  your multiplication tables, I’m sorry. Truly. You were robbed of one of the  greatest  superpowers a human mind can have. But don’t worry. You can still fix that.  And it won’t even take that long.  Before you go any further in this book, you must know—instantly, without thinking—what 7 × 8 is, what 9 + 6 is, and what 12 ÷ 3 equals. Not after a pause. Not after counting on your fingers. Instantly. Do you know your multiplication tables? Not just know them, but have them memorized? Reading this, I felt grateful for Mrs.  Borkenblatt , my 3 rd  grade math teacher, who was older than the other teachers at my elementary school, and did indeed make everyone  memorize  the multiplication table. The way she made us memorize it was like this: Step 1 : Draw out the whole table. She made us do this every night for homework for two weeks straight. In honor of her, I decided to draw a new table, then and there, in the Dragon Notebook. I drew it using the same format she made us use in 3 rd  grade, where numbers on the outside were large and numbers on the inside were small.   (show table) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 2 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 18 20 22 24 3 3 6 9 12 15 18 21 24 27 30 33 36 4 4 8 12 16 20 24 28 32 36 40 44 48 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Step 2:  Get two standard dice. Roll them twice and multiply the outcomes together. Answer as fast as you  can, and  use the table you just drew to check yourself.  (sketch)  Step 3:  With the dice still out, recite out loud not only the product of their multiplication, but also the two division problems you can now make up.  (with sketch – show how this works)  When I was in 3 rd  grade, I spent maybe 10 to 15 minutes a night, every night, for like a week, rolling the dice  over and over  and testing myself against the multiplication table.   That was all it took to memorize  the multiplication table for life .  Now I was feeling weirdly grateful for Mrs.  Borkenblatt . All the many hours I’d spent over the years on  so much meaningless  busywork the teachers made us do, but that  one  week  in 3 rd  grade , rolling those dice, that  time was well spent!  Once I’d memorized how to multiply and divide all those numbers, I knew it forever. Math had been so easy and enjoyable for me ever since.  But Professor  Hawkinstench  said it wasn’t enough to have multiplication and  divison  facts down cold. He said, if you wanted to become a human calculator, you had to get lightning fast at all four basic operations with single-digit numbers.  I had memorized multiplication and division, but I’d never really memorized addition and subtraction.  I mean…why  memorize them when it was so easy to just count on your fingers, or in your head?  7 + 5?  In my head I counted 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, tapping out each number with my fingertips on the table until I got to five. It was something I’d done so many times  I didn’t even pause to think about it, and I did in about 2 seconds. But 2 seconds wasn’t instant. The Professor said you had to be instant.  7 x 5? I had that memorized. 35. Instant. 7 + 5? I had to  count up  to 12.  “Huh,” I said aloud.  No one ever made me memorize simple addition and subtraction.  So  I started making up a new game, for myself, that night, on the spot. The game was this: 1. Roll two standard dice. 2. See if you could instantly announce the sum. (sketches of two dice)  And you know what? I could!  If it was  just  two dice.  But what about three?  (sketches and captions ….the  game with three dice) With three dice, sometimes I had the answer instantly, like here: ( show  five three and two – caption – this one was easy: Five and three is eight. Eight and two is ten. Or…three and two is five. Five and five is ten) But sometimes I had to count, like here: ( show  six three, and give, explain in caption: I could do six and three instantly, that’s nine. But nine and five, I had to think for a second to get 14. I didn’t have it memorized.  I’d always just quickly counted it on my fingers.) “Huh,” I said, realizing, kind of for the first time, that there were some number combinations whose sum I had memorized, and other that I didn’t.  “I should just memorize them all,” I whispered.  So  I did. For the next twenty minutes, I rolled three dice,  over and over again , observing when I could sum them up instantly, and when I couldn’t. It turned out that when 7, 8, and 9 showed up, that’s when I was most likely to  count up  to the answer.  9 +3 –> I knew instantly that this was 12. But 9+4? I had to count. How silly. If I know that 9+3 is  12  I should know that 9+4 is 13!  Out in the hallway, I heard Lila running back and forth, her feet pounding the floor as she tried to get the dogs to chase her. They barked as they skidded and thumped into walls, and she shrieked with laughter. And behind that sound was the piano, still going. Paige had now moved onto a different part of her piece, which she was hitting  over and over again .  We were all doing our thing, in our small, over-crowded house, and it was fun.  I was figuring out which combinations of numbers I didn’t have memorized, and memorizing them , and enjoying the chaos outside my door.  Isn’t it interesting how much more f un it is to learn something when you’re doing it on your own and no one is forcing you t o? I rolled the dice again. (sketch) Seven  and four and three. “ Fourteen ,” I said instantly. I was  definitely getting  faster already. I kind of wished I could make a game out of this somehow, something where I could keep score, maybe compete against my friends.  Outside of my room, the doorbell rang, and the dogs went berserk, as they do whenever the bell rings. I barely looked up.  Probably just a package. Or someone here to see Mom or Paige.  Definitely not  for me. I rolled the dice one more time. ( sketch :  Five, five, and two. ) “Twelve,” I said , and now I wondered if I could extend the game to try and do fast multiplication responses too.  “Fifty,” I whispered, having calculated the product of all three as fast as I could.  I  definitely needed  to make a game out of this.  Maybe a video game?  The thought was so exciting I had to sit back for a bit and let it roll over me.  The computer could roll the dice for me,  over and over , and I’d have to answer as fast as I could. It could keep score. Track which combinations I missed. Make me practice the ones I was bad at more often. And if I wrote the game myself ….that  would force me to practice programming. It was like everything I wanted to do was all coming together all at once.  I glanced at the stack of library books on my desk. The Python book was  second  from the top  of the stack, right beneath Simple Robots for Clever Humans.  (sketch of the title) I  grabbed Simple Robots from the stack, intending to set it aside, but right  as I got my hands on it, there  was a knock  at my bedroom door.  It startled me  so badly my whole body jumped , and  the book popped out of my hands like a fish trying to jump back in the lake.  The book slid to the edge of my desk, tipped, and then fell to the floor with a soft thud.  As it fell, I saw, out of the corner of my eye, a little slip of paper fall from its pages. It was a white square, no bigger than a Post-it note. It fluttered down to the floor like a falling autumn leaf.   I noticed  it, but  didn’t think  much of it . “Gavin?” came my mom’s voice from the other side.  “Someone’s here to see you.” “Coming!” I  said .  I pushed back my chair and opened the door. My friend Siggy  was standing in the hallway  with my mom. He was holding a  cardboard box.   “Gavin, you’ve got to see this,” he said.  His eyes were wide with excitement.  “It’s urgent.”  “You busy?” he asked. I looked back at my desk. The dice. The Dragon Notebook. The stack of books. “Yeah,” I said. Siggy grinned. “Good,” he said. “I brought something weird.” I was deep into this practice when my phone buzzed with an incoming text.   It was from my friend Siggy. What does Siggy say? I just got a bunch of amazing old movies. Can you come over tomorrow? And this reminds Gavin that he’s supposed to text Raven about going to her house tomorrow. She gave him her phone number. It’s on a slip of paper in his pocket.  He texts back to Siggy and Raven both and arranges.  Of course, this is boring. I need to make this all more interesting. I think I need to set up a scene where all three of them are together and all the discoveries can happen at once. Is there an interesting, efficient way to make this happen?   Do that, and the rest of this book will feel like flying. Fail to do it, and every “trick” that follows will feel slow, clumsy, and frustrating. So here is your first challenge: Close this book. Seriously. Come back when the numbers feel like old friends. (ChatGPT write a draft of a first page of a mental math book about how the key to mental math isn’t to learn a bunch of tricks, but rather, to practice, over and over, and that there would be all sorts of cool tricks in this book yet to come, but almost none of them work unless you are lightning fast at doing the four basic arithmetic operations with single-digit numbers. Then the author goes on a short but fun rant about how modern schools have decided to stop making kids memorize the multiplication table because they’ve convinced themselves that memorization doesn’t equal understanding but that’s total poppycock and if that happened to you, sorry to say, the first thing you need to do before you get deep into the rest of this book is not only memorize the arithmetic relationships between all  signle  digit numbers, but get  llightning  fast at it).  Four new library books: one about mental math, two about computer programming, one about robotics. Where to even begin?  I  should just set them on my desk and let fate decide, I thought.  I pulled the books from my backpack and stacked them on my desk. Whatever order they landed in, that’s the order in which I would attack them.  (show stack) The Human Calculator was on top of the stack.  I set the books in a stack on top of my desk, and decided  Open the chapter with an excerpt from The Human Calculator.  This next chapter is Gavin in his room. It’s a how to practice, how to study scene , guided by the author of the  mental math book . Addition, subtraction, multiplication, division, the pennies, maybe two dice.  Narrative that we need: Marvin Marindale, weirdness in town, let’s focus on Marvin Marindale.  STEM we need – some math practice, the word on electronics,  Text me tonight and we’ll set it up.