OUTLINE CHAPTER BY CHAPTER
================================================================================

Chapter 1 : Gavin  wants to build a robot because his friends at the old school have a robotics team and he was just going to be allowed to be a part of it (7 th  grade is when you get to enter) and he’s jealous.  So  he talks to Grandpa about it and Grandpa says, “We could build a robot.”  They  build a circuit, Grandpa sends Gavin for a book, he finds Sparky McVoltage, he finds the note.  Grandpa challenges Gavin to learn more about electricity. Character notes: some hints at Gavin’s feelings about starting a new school Chapter 2 :  ok chapter 2. Gavin now has this note about an alien invasion from chapter 1, and he's started a robot  with Grandpa . He goes to his friend Siggy's house. Siggy has just picked something up at an "Antiques and Oddities" store. It's an old VHS video case but inside is a Raspberry Pi. He wants Gavin to help him set it up. They connect it to an old monitor and old keyboard and  mouse, and  use the  INternet  to learn how command it in Linux. They find out that there is one piece of software pre-loaded on it....an old video game. Suggestion : Could there be a clue also inside the box if you need one? A  dewey  decimal number? Could be on a piece of paper.  If you do house of  ra  you don’t need that, but this is a good place to drop another needed clue. Chapter 3 : We see the game for the first time. Robin Dynamo and the Treasure of the Ancients – an adventure game  similar to  the classic Sierra games like King’s Quest or Space Quest (or Leisure Suit Larry, which was my favorite, but obviously this game, in a YA novel, will not have that kind of content lol). The game is about a space adventurer named Robin Dynamo, who is looking for the Treasure of the Ancients, and after an intro and some early scenes, where he finds a robot companion named  BleepBlorp , he comes to a maze where he must program  BleepBlorp  to do the maze and stop in exactly the right spot. Why  BleepBlorp   has to  stop in the exact spot I don’t know – need to figure that out.  The “maze” is a Pythagorean Theorem problem where a path with some back and forth can have an implied right triangle drawn within. You  are able to  solve for the angles of turning at each corner, and for the length of the hypotenuse, and Bleep  Blorp  must use that info to go exactly where he needs to go. But you must program him. He is like the Turtle in Turtle Module in Python or old Logo educational program. He goes forward, back, but also can turn  a number of  degrees.  They mess around just guessing and don’t do it right and  BleepBlorp  dies game over, and when they come back to the screen, the numbers are different even though the layout is the same. It’s clear they  have to  solve it on paper first. They can’t do a  trial and error  approach.  Actually  he just  has to  stop in the right spot and then after he’s through this trial, the next one is the sequence of  rumradikan .  Chapter 4 : Working on the problem; intro to the Dragon Notebook. Then at school the next morning. Working through some scenes  at school . Ms. Ehlo ’s introduction here is in Bernoulli Principle. Math Teacher’s intro too – Gavin has a place as a helper in the math class.  Squares and square roots.  Gavin looks at an old poster in the room about the Pythagorean Theorem.  This is where we need to introduce the character of Raven  Schimelfinney  (replacement for Charlotte – much darker and more brooding). She really takes to Gavin’s math lessons and they kind of bond over math. She comments on the triangle problem in his notebook.  Note: More research on Marvin needed at some point here. Internet research. Asking Dad.  Chapter 5 :  Some backstory about how Gavin had to change schools, is family had to move ….we  are at his house in the evening with him and he’s working on the math problem. We’re clarifying for the reader what the problem is and how you might approach solving it.  We haven’t yet realized this is a Pythagorean Theorem Problem.  Gavin is just starting to research Marvin Marindale, looks at a picture of him online, sees a woman behind him with stringy hair and sullen eyes.  Then the family comes home and we meet them. Paige and Lila and the crew and the dogs…we get an intro to all of them and learn a little more about Gavin’s family. We establish that Paige is in a piano contest coming up later. Gavin thinks about how his sister and other people have focused on a thing and gotten better at it and he has not, but he wants to.  The scene should have a button on the end of it with Gavin reading from Sparky  McVoltage  and discovering that some letters are underlined.  Character notes: think about Gavin’s wants all through this scene, his envy of other friends, his sense that he’s getting left behind.   All of  these character interludes…Gavin is thinking about how he wants to be like Iron Man…wants to have  super powers  because of his engineering prowess.  Keep the research about Marvin going here.  Plus  some stuff overheard that makes Gavin think their financial situation is  pretty dire . Gavin hears his mom mention how angry she is at Manny, and there’s talk of Dad’s contracts at various schools. He’s an adjunct at multiple  colleges around town and works nonstop. After his firing, he spent a lot of the family’s savings on an attempted consulting business that went nowhere.  Chapter 6:  Gavin and Siggy are meeting before school in the morning in the courtyard. Gavin shows Siggy how the underlined letters spell “Go to the Atlas Find the House of Ra.” No way,  says Siggy. That can’t be right. The House of Ra is a location in Robin Dynamo. I just found it last night. It’s this house in the neighborhood that appears when you look hard enough. It has this weird address.  They talk about how weird it is. Gavin shows him the page in the Dragon Notebook where he wrote down the letters. At the top of the page is the work he was doing on the triangle problem.  Raven approaches the  table,  says she’s figured out the triangle problem. She’s very excited.  Chapter 7 : Detailed explanation of the triangle problem by Raven including full lesson on the Pythagorean Theorem.  The bell  rings . They  have to  go to class. Chapter  8 :   Thinking about the problem, about how to solve the problem in the game…taking Raven’s lessons and thinking about what he’s already figured out about triangles.  Narrate ahead to Ms. Ehlo introducing the STEM Fair, talking about Marvin Marindale, even getting a little emotional about it as she speaks, about how he died recently. Says  they must do in groups of 3 .  Says that the  Marindale  Foundation is going to open up  Hammerstrike .  Gavin is amazed that this guy’s name keeps coming up. Gavin goes and sits with Siggy as the class starts grouping itself off, realizes they need a third, sees Raven sitting by herself, calls her over. This is a big moment. The three of them are now a group and they’ve chosen each other. And the scene ends with them saying what’s our project going to be and Gavin  says  “We’re going to build a robot.” Some hints about how nice it would be, in Gavin’s mind, to WIN at something. Some daydreams about fixing his family’s situation, some ideas about winning the STEM Fair…which has as a prize a bunch of college scholarships, including a scholarship to this neat summer program in Turquoise (make up town in Arizona where Marvin lived for a while  while  convalescing).  Chapter 8a: some research about Marvin Marindale after school that day on the bus ride home, or Siggy having done research and recapping it for Gavin.  Chapter 8 b : Gavin wants to go back to  Grandpa’s  but he can’t until he can explain electricity. Explain electricity  here, and  then segue into him at Grandpa’s explaining all that to him.  Gavin has an hour to learn it before he’s supposed to be at Grandpa’s. Or maybe he sits at a table in a park and learns it and writes it, and while he’s there…he looks at Fort Juniper, and thinks about the past, and thinks about something that he saw when Siggy showed him the research…a man in the photos, someone he’d seen before. Quick riff on how your mind connects things together. He was thinking about something that happened in this part, at this tree, and then he thought of this man he used to see in those  days, and  realized the man in the photo was the same, or seemed the same.  Chapter 9  and 10 :  Gavin back  at Grandpa’s. Tells  Grandpa  he  wants to make his robot the STEM fair project. Grandpa is game, but reminds him that this is our project, and we should do it how we want to do it, not to coincide with anybody’s rules. And I’ve got something new for you  today. He breaks out an Arduino. Scene break then explanation of Arduino, from both Gavin/Grandpa and Sparky McVoltage.  Two chapters of explaining how to make an LED  blink, and  leaving us with a challenge – make a traffic light setup on a breadboard.  Chapter 11:  Gavin at Siggy’s house, shows off the traffic light.  We get to see the Arduino and the Raspberry Pi side by side.  Raven is now there too. They’ve invited her, also. The question is: how is this a robot? And the answer is: we’re learning how circuits work, next step is to replace lights with motors. They’re looking at the STEM Fair requirements: Make something, solve a problem, use science or engineering to build something, solve a problem, learn how something works, perform an experiment, or learn something new. Raven is pushing them that making a robot is cool, but lots of people have built robots before. They are checking the box learn how something works. Raven is reading all these rules, Gavin is playing with the light, and Siggy is playing Robin Dynamo, all at once. Siggy is narrating  how Robin is finding his way to the House of Ra. The gameplay takes over the scene when Siggy shows us how Robin finds this hidden house in a row of houses between house 317 and 318. The house is 317.86021. But there’s nothing to do there. You can’t go in. It’s just labeled “The House of Ra” and it says, “You will find the truth here.” Gavin’s got the Sparky  McVoltage  book and he shows it to Raven, who is looking at the hidden message they’ve already decoded, which says Go to the Atlas Find the House of Ra. They decide this  is all weird and  curious  but they don’t know what it means, and they send Robin back to the triangle map to try and solve it now that they know how to do the problem. Note: Raven is reading the rules from the official  Marindale  STEM fair  packet  and it’s got clues for them as well and lots of weird verbiage.  Chapter 12:  Walk through the entire solution to the triangle problem using the Pythagorean theorem and properties of triangles. Explain how to “code” it in the pseudocode of the video game. They press enter, and  BleepBlorp  the robot  successfully completes the challenge. They are in a new level of the video game, with a door permanently opened. In the new level, they go through and the game tells them to build the Beacon of Orithgloth and flash it in the Sequence of  Rumradikan . Note: It should feel  pretty epic  when  BleepBlorp  succeeds at the triangle problem. They should struggle and argue a little bit about the code. Gavin should write  Orinthgloth  and  Rumradikan  in his notebook. Raven should be a little disengaged from all of this, and maybe Gavin feels a hint disappointed at her response.  But then she suggests that the address number is a  dewey  decimal number.  Chapter 13:  It’s after school and they’ve arranged to go to the Atlas. They take the bus. Something interesting should happen on the bus ride over. We see their conversation, but also there’s an ad on the bus that  gives a clue. Says something about how Lord Yorton’s favorite food is artichokes . Gavin sketches it in the Dragon Notebook while listening to Siggy and Raven talk about something that reveals some of their character. They have both lived on this end of town all this time and frequently rode the bus. Gavin has just moved here and has never ridden the bus before.  Scene break We’re in the Atlas, unlike previous drafts, Gavin has never been here before. They see the Marvin Marindale plaque in the lobby. They go and find the book. We see the opening page.  Chapter 14:  They have taken the book to a  table  and we can see the whole thing now.  It ends with a diagram of The Beacon of Orithgloth and a listing of numbers and letters that is the Sequence of  Rumradikan .  Also  there is a sunflower seed pressed between two of the pages. They find this amusing and odd. Siggy says to Gavin, “I dare you to eat that.” Raven says no don’t that’s  gross  but Gavin does. It’s all soft and weird.  Also, the sequence of  rumradikan  is unknown, and yet also there is a hint in there that you already have the sequence figured out, you just need to decode it.  Chapter 15:  More research about Marvin. More thinking through how weird it all is. Makes the circuit for the Beacon but doesn’t program it. Doesn’t know the sequence. Goes back to Siggy’s and they get to the place where they’re supposed to do the Sequence of  Rumradikan  but it doesn’t make any sense because it’s just colors.   And this guy who’s been showing up in the pictures, and the people who died. Gavin looks them up. They all appear in pictures with that guy. One of them, with a caption, gives the guy’s name:  Casper Smitty. More looking him up. Learning something important ( Tanthrop  Hammond somebody or other important, but on a project that Gavin’s heard about before).  Chapter 16:  Evening …. Asks  Dad about Casper Smitty. Dad gets agitated. What have you heard? He didn’t try to contact you, did he? They talk, and it turns out that Casper Smitty is the reason Dad got fired. Dad didn’t approve of  soemthign  dishonest about Casper, and they disagreed about  whether or not  something should be open source, and Casper not only fired Dad, but the company sued him. As they keep talking, it turns out that Dad’s not supposed to talk about the project, not even to Gavin. Dad is getting  more and more  agitated, Gavin is pressing, they are in a fight and Dad leaves, tears welling in his eyes. Gavin goes to his room, confused. Dad comes in and says we’ll talk. Chapter 17: Dad tells Gavin a story about whatever is needed at this point in the plot. Something about radio waves  and also  about wormholes and spacetime. Experiments about sending radio waves through wormholes. Gavin’s dad hasn’t seen it, but he’s heard that  Tanthrop  Hammond has created some kind of wormhole.  Chapter 18: Gavin doesn’t sleep well: he’s thinking about all the things he wants to tell dad, all the warnings from Marvin, and most of all, the thought that aliens are about to invade.  In and out of fits of sleep, he has the sunflower dream.  Gavin  wakes up…it’s like 4 in the morning. He  has decided that he’s going to take it all seriously and follow the clues  and  consider the possibility that this might be real. He goes to his desk, determined to look through his notebook and  Sparky  McVoltage  to  consider whatever he might have missed.  We see a little of that, particularly in Sparky  McVoltage  book, getting an excerpt.  Chapter 19:  Back at school, back at the table, Gavin excitedly announcing to the others that he’s figured it out. Lesson on wavelengths and light. Teach as much about radio waves in here as you can fit. It’s the colors! The numbers are in  nanometers  and they tell us the colors. Gavin shows the completed Beacon of Orithgloth and the Sequence of  Rumradikan .  But in the  game  it’s not a beacon, it’s…and then Siggy figures it out. They  have to  program it in pseudocode.  Scene break At Siggy’s that night, they program the game. We also see the real program for the Arduino. They have made the Beacon of  Orinthgloth  and programmed it to play the sequence of  Rumradikan . In the game, they go on to the next level, which is whatever is needed. We need to work towards the finale. Unknown – what’s next in the game?  Chapter 20: We’ve entered the muddy middle of the story. We need now to be building towards a strong climax.  Let’s think about what we need. We need them to get to the museum and see the reflections and refractions exhibit. They need to have the map at this point. Where did they get the map? Where might you get a map? In the mail, from the Internet, at school, in a library, at a college, buried in a tube somewhere. We should make a radio signal using an NRF component. When they research Marvin, they should see that the Foundation still owns and runs: the museum, the observatory, the night school (where Gavin’s dad is teaching; and where Gavin has seen one of the symbols in a piece of artwork). You hold the NRF up to the symbol, you have the right code encoded in it, and it opens for you, the map comes out.  We need for serious clues to start coming including one that tells of how the lights must be aligned by Druin’s Day.  This can happen in the game. We need to be near the end of the game at this point. You’re searching for the treasure of the ancients. You  have to  align the Beacon of  Orinthgloth  so that on Druin’s Day the light bounces from one locale to another. You have the map. You get it all figured out.  You need to keep moving towards the completed robot.  You complete the alignment of the Beacon, and it shines into the tower, but you must activate the Raferty’s  Gabberty  inside the castle. Once in the castle, you need to use all your tools: the signal, the key, the maze, then  BleepBlorp  must navigate the basement room to get the  Gabbity ,  and then you must take the  Gabbity  up to the  Wacawoon  to activate it. You must be there at Druin’s Day…the light will shine. It opens a secret passage that leads to the  Macguffin , which is a book and a note. The note is something to the effect of: I needed you to do all of this and you did good. Maybe it’s not a note so much as a hologram. And then there’s a final puzzle to know which floor tile it’s under, but be careful, if you choose incorrectly, well…let’s just say you don’t want to choose incorrectly.  They get the prize, then they  have to  rush back to the STEM Fair to be judged.  This is all good, but what about the bad guys?  The bad guy needs to be  present,  it would be ideal if he were eliminated at the end of this book. The big something that’s been missing to prevent the bad guys from taking over the Foundation  or ruining Gavin’s dad’s life. There was a due date by which Gavin’s dad had to prove authorship of  the stuff. There were old documents on file at  Tanthrop  Hammond which Casper has destroyed, but  Marvin gets hold of a  CD-Rom  that’s labeled “Laser project.” Gavin pretends to have found it in the closet in the tower of power (could you make a mousetrap car in this book?)  The coda at the end is the discovery of the CD that saves the day. The story here isn’t that this rescues everything and makes the family solvent again, but it does end the lawsuit and requires a payout that prevents the family from losing everything.  Chapter 30: We’re at the STEM Fair  at  Hammerstrike . We’ve figured out that we need to take the Beacon to the door and the Eye of  Trenhawk . We know that we need to follow the maze according to the algorithm to get to the center. We know that, once in the center,  BleepBlorp   has to  complete the Ordeal of the  Glumberglotts .  We know all of this because  the video game showed it to us.  We also want to win the grand prize.  There should be some kind of obstacle to us getting there in time. Maybe something we need  in order to  do everything is still happening right before the Fair starts. Maybe we’re just discovering something critical. Maybe a bad guy has locked us far away. The ideal plot point should be that we had to do something at this time.  The conflict should be waiting for the judging to finish, knowing there is a specific time that we  have to   The next day is Paige’s piano contest. No time to work on the circuit. All sorts of people from Gavin’s old life, including Annika. Turns out she’s now dating Billy. Sour feelings, but then outside, they play on the  Gavin is tired when he gets home and his program isn’t working anyway. He goes to bed angry.  And Siggy says, “The House of Ra” is from my video game. Siggy explains that one of the locations in the Robin Dynamo video game is  The House of Ra. It’s a hidden house in a neighborhood with a weird address with a decimal ending but he can’t figure out what it means.  Gavin reading rules of STEM Fair realizes his robot project could be a STEM Fair project. Grandpa is game, but reminds him that this is our project, and we should do it how we want to do it, not to coincide with anybody’s rules. And I’ve got something new for you When he gets to the special  spot  he  has to  flash the sequence of  rumradikan , but if he does it from the wrong spot, or flashes the wrong sequence, a booby trap activates to kill him.    With as little text as you can possibly use, convey the Robin Dynamo thing through the first puzzle. The first puzzle is that they need to send  BleepBlorp  across a maze where he must stop at exactly the right spot. It’s a triangle and Pythagorean Theorem problem. You must figure out the angle and the distance. They are stuck. That leads to the end of the scene. 